---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 10
description: 🕊️100 Days of Swift > Day 10
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift" , "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of Swift > Day 10
    content: Day 10
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 10
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of Swift > Day 10
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/explore/crashcourse/paul-hudson-100-days-of-swift/10.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Classes

At first, classes seem very similar to structs because we use them to create new data types with properties and methods. However, they introduce a new, important, and complex feature called inheritance – the ability to make one class build on the foundations of another.

This is a powerful feature, there’s no doubt about it, and there is no way to avoid using classes when you start building real iOS apps. But please remember to keep your code simple: just because a feature exists, it doesn’t mean you need to use it. As Martin Fowler wrote, “any fool can write code that a computer can understand, but good programmers write code that humans can understand.”

Today you have eight one-minute videos to watch, and you’ll meet things like method overrides, final classes, and deinitializers. Once you’ve watched each video and optionally gone through the extra reading, there’s a short test to help make sure you’ve understood what was taught.

### 1. Creating your own classes

::: details 1. Creating your own classes 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/8/1/creating-your-own-classes)

<YouTube id="dqPTykJaHys" />

Classes are similar to structs in that they allow you to create new types with properties and methods, but they have five important differences and I’m going to walk you through each of those differences one at a time.

The first difference between classes and structs is that classes never come with a memberwise initializer. This means if you have properties in your class, you must always create your own initializer.

For example:

```swift
class Dog {
    var name: String
    var breed: String

    init(name: String, breed: String) {
        self.name = name
        self.breed = breed
    }
}
```

Creating instances of that class looks just the same as if it were a struct:

```swift
let poppy = Dog(name: "Poppy", breed: "Poodle")
```

:::

::: info 1. Creating your own classes - Additional

- Optional: [Why does Swift have both classes and structs?][why-does-swift-have-both-classes-and-structs]
- Test: [Creating your own classes][test-creating-your-own-classes]

:::

### 2. Class inheritance

::: details 2. Class inheritance 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/8/2/class-inheritance)

<YouTube id="zv8Lia5Ertk" />

The second difference between classes and structs is that you can create a class based on an existing class – it inherits all the properties and methods of the original class, and can add its own on top.

This is called class inheritance or subclassing, the class you inherit from is called the “parent” or “super” class, and the new class is called the “child” class.

Here’s the `Dog` class we just created:

```swift
class Dog {
    var name: String
    var breed: String

    init(name: String, breed: String) {
        self.name = name
        self.breed = breed
    }
}
```

We could create a new class based on that one called `Poodle`. It will inherit the same properties and initializer as `Dog` by default:

```swift
class Poodle: Dog {

}
```

However, we can also give `Poodle` its own initializer. We know it will always have the breed “Poodle”, so we can make a new initializer that only needs a `name` property. Even better, we can make the `Poodle` initializer call the `Dog` initializer directly so that all the same setup happens:

```swift
class Poodle: Dog {
    init(name: String) {
        super.init(name: name, breed: "Poodle")
    }
}
```

For safety reasons, Swift always makes you call `super.init()` from child classes – just in case the parent class does some important work when it’s created.

:::

::: info 2. Class inheritance - Additional

- Optional: [Why don’t Swift classes have a memberwise initializer?][why-dont-swift-classes-have-a-memberwise-initializer]
- Test: [Class inheritance][test-class-inheritance]

:::

### 3. Overriding methods

::: details 3. Overriding methods 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/8/3/overriding-methods)

<YouTube id="T8FrBuSzEJA" />

Child classes can replace parent methods with their own implementations – a process known as overriding. Here’s a trivial `Dog` class with a `makeNoise()` method:

```swift
class Dog {
    func makeNoise() {
        print("Woof!")
    }
}
```

If we create a new `Poodle` class that inherits from `Dog`, it will inherit the `makeNoise()` method. So, this will print “Woof!”:

```swift
class Poodle: Dog {
}
```


```swift
let poppy = Poodle()
poppy.makeNoise()
```

Method overriding allows us to change the implementation of `makeNoise()` for the `Poodle` class.

Swift requires us to use `override func` rather than just `func` when overriding a method – it stops you from overriding a method by accident, and you’ll get an error if you try to override something that doesn’t exist on the parent class:

```swift
class Poodle: Dog {
    override func makeNoise() {
        print("Yip!")
    }
}
```

With that change, `poppy.makeNoise()` will print “Yip!” rather than “Woof!”.

:::

::: info 3. Overriding methods - Additional

- Optional: [When would you want to override a method?][when-would-you-want-to-override-a-method]
- Test: [Overriding methods][test-overriding-methods]

:::

### 4. Final classes

::: details 4. Final classes 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/8/4/final-classes)

<YouTube id="cfQshjRXhhw" />

Although class inheritance is very useful – and in fact large parts of Apple’s platforms require you to use it – sometimes you want to disallow other developers from building their own class based on yours.

Swift gives us a `final` keyword just for this purpose: when you declare a class as being final, no other class can inherit from it. This means they can’t override your methods in order to change your behavior – they need to use your class the way it was written.

To make a class final just put the `final` keyword before it, like this:

```swift
final class Dog {
    var name: String
    var breed: String

    init(name: String, breed: String) {
        self.name = name
        self.breed = breed
    }
}
```

:::

::: info 4. Final classes - Additional

- Optional: [Which classes should be declared as final?][which-classes-should-be-declared-as-final]
- Test: [Final classes][test-final-classes]

:::

### 5. Copying objects

::: details 5. Copying objects 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/8/5/copying-objects)

<YouTube id="og-rHqYYM9A" />

The third difference between classes and structs is how they are copied. When you copy a struct, both the original and the copy are different things – changing one won’t change the other. When you copy a class, both the original and the copy point to the same thing, so changing one does change the other.

For example, here’s a simple `Singer` class that has a `name` property with a default value:

```swift
class Singer {
    var name = "Taylor Swift"
}
```

If we create an instance of that class and prints its name, we’ll get “Taylor Swift”:

```swift
var singer = Singer()
print(singer.name)
```

Now let’s create a second variable from the first one and change its name:

```swift
var singerCopy = singer
singerCopy.name = "Justin Bieber"
```

Because of the way classes work, both `singer` and `singerCopy` point to the same object in memory, so when we print the singer name again we’ll see “Justin Bieber”:

```swift
print(singer.name)
```

On the other hand, if `Singer` were a struct then we would get “Taylor Swift” printed a second time:

```swift
struct Singer {
    var name = "Taylor Swift"
}
```

:::

::: info 5. Copying objects - Additional

- Optional: [Why do copies of a class share their data?][why-do-copies-of-a-class-share-their-data]
- test: [Copying objects][test-copying-objects]

:::

### 6. Deinitializers

::: details 6. Deinitializers 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/8/6/deinitializers)

<YouTube id="OH1J1DXzbl4" />

The fourth difference between classes and structs is that classes can have deinitializers – code that gets run when an instance of a class is destroyed.

To demonstrate this, here’s a `Person` class with a `name` property, a simple initializer, and a `printGreeting()` method that prints a message:

```swift
class Person {
    var name = "John Doe"

    init() {
        print("\(name) is alive!")
    }

    func printGreeting() {
        print("Hello, I'm \(name)")
    }
}
```

We’re going to create a few instances of the `Person` class inside a loop, because each time the loop goes around a new person will be created then destroyed:

```swift
for _ in 1...3 {
    let person = Person()
    person.printGreeting()
}
```

And now for the deinitializer. This will be called when the `Person` instance is being destroyed:

```swift
deinit {
    print("\(name) is no more!")
}
```

:::

::: info 6. Deinitializers - Additional

- Optional: [Why do classes have deinitializers and structs don’t?][why-do-classes-have-deinitializers-and-structs-dont]
- Test: [Deinitializers][test-deinitializers]

:::

### 7. Mutability

::: details 7. Mutability 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/8/7/mutability)

<YouTube id="Gw3mGIybT68" />

The final difference between classes and structs is the way they deal with constants. If you have a constant struct with a variable property, that property can’t be changed because the struct itself is constant.

However, if you have a constant class with a variable property, that property can be changed. Because of this, classes don’t need the `mutating` keyword with methods that change properties; that’s only needed with structs.

This difference means you can change any variable property on a class even when the class is created as a constant – this is perfectly valid code:

```swift
class Singer {
    var name = "Taylor Swift"
}
```


```swift
let taylor = Singer()
taylor.name = "Ed Sheeran"
print(taylor.name)
```

If you want to stop that from happening you need to make the property constant:

```swift
class Singer {
    let name = "Taylor Swift"
}
```


:::

::: info 7. Mutability - Additional

- Optional: [Why can variable properties in constant classes be changed?][why-can-variable-properties-in-constant-classes-be-changed]
- Test: [Mutability][test-mutability]

:::

### 8. Classes summary

::: details 8. Classes summary 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/8/8/classes-summary)

<YouTube id="wF1ovHy2KO8" />

You’ve made it to the end of the eighth part of this series, so let’s summarize:

1. Classes and structs are similar, in that they can both let you create your own types with properties and methods.
2. One class can inherit from another, and it gains all the properties and methods of the parent class. It’s common to talk about class hierarchies – one class based on another, which itself is based on another.
3. You can mark a class with the `final` keyword, which stops other classes from inheriting from it.
4. Method overriding lets a child class replace a method in its parent class with a new implementation.
5. When two variables point at the same class instance, they both point at the same piece of memory – changing one changes the other.
6. Classes can have a deinitializer, which is code that gets run when an instance of the class is destroyed.
7. Classes don’t enforce constants as strongly as structs – if a property is declared as a variable, it can be changed regardless of how the class instance was created.

:::

::: info 8. Classes summary - Additional

- Test: [Classes][test-classes-summary]

:::

[why-does-swift-have-both-classes-and-structs]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-does-swift-have-both-classes-and-structs
[test-creating-your-own-classes]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/review/creating-your-own-classes

[why-dont-swift-classes-have-a-memberwise-initializer]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-dont-swift-classes-have-a-memberwise-initializer
[test-class-inheritance]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/review/class-inheritance

[when-would-you-want-to-override-a-method]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-would-you-want-to-override-a-method
[test-overriding-methods]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/review/overriding-methods

[which-classes-should-be-declared-as-final]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/which-classes-should-be-declared-as-final
[test-final-classes]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/review/final-classes

[why-do-copies-of-a-class-share-their-data]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-do-copies-of-a-class-share-their-data
[test-copying-objects]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/review/copying-objects

[why-do-classes-have-deinitializers-and-structs-dont]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-do-classes-have-deinitializers-and-structs-dont
[test-deinitializers]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/review/deinitializers

[why-can-variable-properties-in-constant-classes-be-changed]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-can-variable-properties-in-constant-classes-be-changed
[test-mutability]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/review/mutability

[test-classes-summary]: https://hackingwithswfit.com/review/classes-summary

