---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 11
description: 🕊️100 Days of Swift > Day 11
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift" , "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of Swift > Day 11
    content: Day 11
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 11
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of Swift > Day 11
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift-100-days-of-swift/11.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Protocols and extensions

Today you’re going to learn some truly Swifty functionality: protocols and protocol-oriented programming (POP).

POP does away with large, complex inheritance hierarchies, and replaces them with much smaller, simpler protocols that can be combined together. This really is the fulfillment of something Tony Hoare said many years ago: “inside every large program, there is a small program trying to get out.”

__Today you have six one-minute videos to watch, and you’ll meet protocols, extensions, and the combination of those two: protocol extensions.__ Once you’ve watched each video and any optional extra reading you wanted, there’s a short test to help make sure you’ve understood what was taught.

### 1. Protocols

::: details 1. Protocols 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/9/1/protocols)

<YouTube id="qi8a9MartqQ"/>

Protocols are a way of describing what properties and methods something must have. You then tell Swift which types use that protocol – a process known as adopting or conforming to a protocol.

For example, we can write a function that accepts something with an `id` property, but we don’t care precisely what type of data is used. We’ll start by creating an `Identifiable` protocol, which will require all conforming types to have an `id` string that can be read (“get”) or written (“set”):

```swift
protocol Identifiable {
    var id: String { get set }
}
```

We can’t create instances of that protocol - it’s a description of what we want, rather than something we can create and use directly. But we can create a struct that conforms to it:

```swift
struct User: Identifiable {
    var id: String
}
```

Finally, we’ll write a `displayID()` function that accepts any `Identifiable` object:

```swift
func displayID(thing: Identifiable) {
    print("My ID is \(thing.id)")
}
```


:::

::: info 1. Protocols - Additional 

- Optional: [Why does Swift need protocols?][why-does-swift-need-protocols]
- Test: [Protocols][test-protocols]

:::

### 2. Protocol inheritance

::: details 2. Protocol inheritance 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/9/2/protocol-inheritance)

<YouTube id="9UzJwD8kTP0"/>

One protocol can inherit from another in a process known as protocol inheritance. Unlike with classes, you can inherit from multiple protocols at the same time before you add your own customizations on top.

We’re going to define three protocols: `Payable` requires conforming types to implement a `calculateWages()` method, `NeedsTraining` requires conforming types to implement a `study()` method, and `HasVacation` requires conforming types to implement a `takeVacation()` method:

```swift
protocol Payable {
    func calculateWages() -> Int
}

protocol NeedsTraining {
    func study()
}

protocol HasVacation {
    func takeVacation(days: Int)
}
```

We can now create a single `Employee` protocol that brings them together in one protocol. We don’t need to add anything on top, so we’ll just write open and close braces:

```swift
protocol Employee: Payable, NeedsTraining, HasVacation { }
```

Now we can make new types conform to that single protocol rather than each of the three individual ones.

:::

::: info 2. Protocol inheritance - Additional 

- Optional: [When should we use protocol inheritance?][when-should-we-use-protocol-inheritance]
- Test: [Protocol inheritance][test-protocol-inheritance]

:::

### 3. Extensions

::: details 3. Extensions 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/9/3/extensions)

<YouTube id="hq3xX_nlgB8"/>

Extensions allow you to add methods to existing types, to make them do things they weren’t originally designed to do.

For example, we could add an extension to the `Int` type so that it has a `squared()` method that returns the current number multiplied by itself:

```swift
extension Int {
    func squared() -> Int {
        return self * self
    }
}
```

To try that out, just create an integer and you’ll see it now has a `squared()` method:

```swift
let number = 8
number.squared()
```

Swift doesn’t let you add stored properties in extensions, so you must use computed properties instead. For example, we could add a new `isEven` computed property to integers that returns true if it holds an even number:

```swift
extension Int {
    var isEven: Bool {
        return self % 2 == 0
    }
}
```


:::

::: info 3. Extensions - Additional 

- Optional: [When should you use extensions in Swift?][when-should-you-use-extensions-in-swift]
- Test: [Extensions][test-extensions]

:::

### 4. Protocol extensions

::: details 4. Protocol extensions 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/9/4/protocol-extensions)

<YouTube id="nj5N4aMjtUw"/>

Protocols let you describe what methods something should have, but don’t provide the code inside. Extensions let you provide the code inside your methods, but only affect one data type – you can’t add the method to lots of types at the same time.

Protocol extensions solve both those problems: they are like regular extensions, except rather than extending a specific type like `Int` you extend a whole protocol so that all conforming types get your changes.

For example, here is an array and a set containing some names:

```swift
let pythons = ["Eric", "Graham", "John", "Michael", "Terry", "Terry"]
let beatles = Set(["John", "Paul", "George", "Ringo"])
```

Swift’s arrays and sets both conform to a protocol called `Collection`, so we can write an extension to that protocol to add a `summarize()` method to print the collection neatly

```swift
extension Collection {
    func summarize() {
        print("There are \(count) of us:")

        for name in self {
            print(name)
        }
    }
}
```

Both `Array` and `Set` will now have that method, so we can try it out:

```swift
pythons.summarize()
beatles.summarize()
```


:::

::: info 4. Protocol extensions - Additional 

- Optional: [When are protocol extensions useful in Swift?][when-are-protocol-extensions-useful-in-swift]
- Test: [Protocol extensions][test-protocol-extensions]

:::

### 5. Protocol-oriented programming

::: details 5. Protocol-oriented programming 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/9/5/protocol-oriented-programming)

<YouTube id="-IU_TvFKqjo"/>

Protocol extensions can provide default implementations for our own protocol methods. This makes it easy for types to conform to a protocol, and allows a technique called “protocol-oriented programming” – crafting your code around protocols and protocol extensions.

First, here’s a protocol called `Identifiable` that requires any conforming type to have an `id` property and an `identify()` method:

```swift
protocol Identifiable {
    var id: String { get set }
    func identify()
}
```

We could make every conforming type write their own `identify()` method, but protocol extensions allow us to provide a default:

```swift
extension Identifiable {
    func identify() {
        print("My ID is \(id).")
    }
}
```

Now when we create a type that conforms to `Identifiable` it gets `identify()` automatically:

```swift
struct User: Identifiable {
    var id: String
}

let twostraws = User(id: "twostraws")
twostraws.identify()
```



:::

::: info 5. Protocol-oriented programming - Additional 

- Optional: [How is protocol-oriented programming different from object-oriented programming?][how-is-protocol-oriented-programming-different-from-object-oriented-programming]
- Test: [Protocol-oriented programming][test-protocol-oriented-programming]

:::

### 6. Protocols and extensions summary

::: details 6. Protocols and extensions summary 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/9/6/protocols-and-extensions-summary)

<YouTube id="q1UkvM2V07E"/>

You’ve made it to the end of the ninth part of this series, so let’s summarize:

1. Protocols describe what methods and properties a conforming type must have, but don’t provide the implementations of those methods.
2. You can build protocols on top of other protocols, similar to classes.
3. Extensions let you add methods and computed properties to specific types such as `Int`.
4. Protocol extensions let you add methods and computed properties to protocols.
5. Protocol-oriented programming is the practice of designing your app architecture as a series of protocols, then using protocol extensions to provide default method implementations.

:::

::: info 6. Protocols and extensions summary - Additional 

- Test: [Protocols and extensions][test-protocols-and-extensions-summary]

:::

That’s day 11 complete, so hopefully by now you know what to do: go and post about your progress online on Twitter, Facebook, Reddit, or whatever social media you like. You’re powered by POP now!


[why-does-swift-need-protocols]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-does-swift-need-protocols
[test-protocols]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/protocols

[when-should-we-use-protocol-inheritance]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-should-we-use-protocol-inheritance
[test-protocol-inheritance]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/protocol-inheritance

[when-should-you-use-extensions-in-swift]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-should-you-use-extensions-in-swift
[test-extensions]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/extensions

[when-are-protocol-extensions-useful-in-swift]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-are-protocol-extensions-useful-in-swift
[test-protocol-extensions]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/protocol-extensions

[how-is-protocol-oriented-programming-different-from-object-oriented-programming]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/how-is-protocol-oriented-programming-different-from-object-oriented-programming
[test-protocol-oriented-programming]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/protocol-oriented-programming

[test-protocols-and-extensions-summary]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/protocols-and-extensions-summary
