---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 4
description: 🕊️100 Days of Swift > Day 4
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift" , "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of Swift > Day 4
    content: Day 4
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 4
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of Swift > Day 4
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift-100-days-of-swift/4.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Loops

Loops are one of the things that make computers so utterly brilliant: the ability to repeat some simple task billions of times every second.

Of course, what goes in those loops is down to you: you might be adding some numbers, you might be reading some sensor data, or you might be redrawing the screen 120 times a second. As Craig Bruce said, “it’s hardware that makes a machine fast, but it’s software that makes a fast machine slow.”

__Today you have eight one-minute videos to watch, and you’ll meet things like for loops, infinite loops, and more.__ Once you’ve watched each video and gone through any optional extra reading that interested you, there’s a short test to help make sure you’ve understood what was taught.

### 1. For loops

::: details 1. For loops 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/4/1/for-loops)

<YouTube id="3bJYE8WRTZ8" />

Swift has a few ways of writing loops, but their underlying mechanism is the same: run some code repeatedly until a condition evaluates as false.

The most common loop in Swift is a `for` loop: it will loop over arrays and ranges, and each time the loop goes around it will pull out one item and assign to a constant.

For example, here’s a range of numbers:

```swift
let count = 1...10
```

We can use a for loop to print each item like this:

```swift
for number in count {
    print("Number is \(number)")
}
```

We can do the same with arrays:

```swift
let albums = ["Red", "1989", "Reputation"]

for album in albums {
    print("\(album) is on Apple Music")
}
```

If you don’t use the constant that `for` loops give you, you should use an underscore instead so that Swift doesn’t create needless values:

```swift
print("Players gonna ")

for _ in 1...5 {
    print("play")
}
```


:::

::: info 1. For loops - Additional 

- Optional: [Why does Swift use underscores with loops?][why-does-swift-use-underscores-with-loops]
- Test: [For loops][test-for-loops]

:::


### 2. While loops

::: details 2. While loops 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/4/2/while-loops)

<YouTube id="JJba9ssT4Xk" />

A second way of writing loops is using `while`: give it a condition to check, and its loop code will go around and around until the condition fails.

For example, we could use a `while` loop to simulate a child counting in a game of hide and seek: we start at one, count up to and including 20 while printing each number out, then after the loop print “Ready or not”.

Here’s how that looks in Swift:

```swift
var number = 1

while number <= 20 {
    print(number)
    number += 1
}

print("Ready or not, here I come!")
```

:::

::: info 2. While loops - Additional 

- Optional: [When should you use a while loop?][when-should-you-use-a-while-loop]
- Test: [While loops][test-while-loops]

:::


### 3. Repeat loops

::: details 3. Repeat loops 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/4/3/repeat-loops)

<YouTube id="ROnXl0H45KE" />

The third way of writing loops is not commonly used, but it’s so simple to learn we might as well cover it: it’s called the `repeat` loop, and it’s identical to a `while` loop except the condition to check comes at the end.

So, we could rewrite our hide and seek example like this:

```swift
var number = 1

repeat {
    print(number)
    number += 1
} while number <= 20

print("Ready or not, here I come!")
```

Because the condition comes at the end of the `repeat` loop the code inside the loop will always be executed at least once, whereas `while` loops check their condition before their first run.

For example, this `print()` function will never be run, because false is always `false`:

```swift
while false {
    print("This is false")
}
```

Xcode will even warn us that the `print()` line will never be executed.

On the other hand, this `print()` function will be run once, because `repeat` only fails the condition after the loop runs:

```swift
repeat {
    print("This is false")
} while false
```

:::

::: info 3. Repeat loops - Additional 

- Optional: [When should you use a repeat loop?][when-should-you-use-a-repeat-loop]
- Test: [Repeat loops][test-repeat-loops]

:::


### 4. Exiting loops

::: details 4. Exiting loops 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/4/4/exiting-loops)

<YouTube id="ln58SnVpTOg" />

You can exit a loop at any time using the `break` keyword. To try this out, let’s start with a regular `while` loop that counts down for a rocket launch:

```swift
var countDown = 10

while countDown >= 0 {
    print(countDown)
    countDown -= 1
}

print("Blast off!")
```

In this case, the astronaut in command gets bored part-way through the countdown and decides to skip the remainder and launch straight away:

```swift
while countDown >= 0 {
    print(countDown)

    if countDown == 4 {
        print("I'm bored. Let's go now!")
        break
    }

    countDown -= 1
}
```

With that change, as soon as `countDown` reaches 4 the astronaut’s message will be printed, and the rest of the loop gets skipped.

:::

::: info 4. Exiting loops - Additional 

- Optional: [Why would you want to exit a loop?][why-would-you-want-to-exit-a-loop]
- Test: [Exiting loops][test-exiting-loops]

:::


### 5. Exiting multiple loops

::: details 5. Exiting multiple loops 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/4/5/exiting-multiple-loops)

<YouTube id="cdesW0tdKQU" />

If you put a loop inside a loop it’s called a nested loop, and it’s not uncommon to want to break out of both the inner loop and the outer loop at the same time.

As an example, we could write some code to calculate the times tables from 1 through 10 like this:

```swift
for i in 1...10 {
    for j in 1...10 {
        let product = i * j
        print ("\(i) * \(j) is \(product)")
    }
}
```

If we wanted to exit part-way through we need to do two things. First, we give the outside loop a label, like this:

```swift
outerLoop: for i in 1...10 {
    for j in 1...10 {
        let product = i * j
        print ("\(i) * \(j) is \(product)")
    }
}
```

Second, add our condition inside the inner loop, then use `break outerLoop` to exit both loops at the same time:

```swift
outerLoop: for i in 1...10 {
    for j in 1...10 {
        let product = i * j
        print ("\(i) * \(j) is \(product)")

        if product == 50 {
            print("It's a bullseye!")
            break outerLoop
        }
    }
}
```

With a regular `break`, only the inner loop would be exited – the outer loop would continue where it left off.

:::

::: info 5. Exiting multiple loops - Additional 

- Optional: [Why does Swift have labeled statements?][why-does-swift-have-labeled-statements]
- Test: [Exiting multiple loops][test-exiting-multiple-loops]

:::


### 6. Skipping items

::: details 6. Skipping items 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/4/6/skipping-items)

<YouTube id="EQQ2Ql7-CvI" />

As you’ve seen, the `break` keyword exits a loop. But if you just want to skip the current item and continue on to the next one, you should use `continue` instead.

To try this out, we can write a loop from 1 through 10, then use Swift’s remainder operator to skip any numbers that are odd:

```swift
for i in 1...10 {
    if i % 2 == 1 {
        continue
    }

    print(i)
}
```

Remember, the remainder operator figures out how many times 2 fits into each number in our loop, then returns whatever is left over. So, if 1 is left over, it means the number is odd, so we can use `continue` to skip it.

:::

::: info 6. Skipping items - Additional 

- Optional: [When to use break and when to use continue][when-to-use-break-and-when-to-use-continue]
- Test: [Skipping items][test-skipping-items]

:::


### 7. Infinite loops

::: details 7. Infinite loops 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/4/7/infinite-loops)

<YouTube id="5-lJsWsYXSs" />

It’s common to use `while` loops to make infinite loops: loops that either have no end or only end when you’re ready. All apps on your iPhone use infinite loops, because they start running, then continually watch for events until you choose to quit them.

To make an infinite loop, just use `true` as your condition. `true` is always true, so the loop will repeat forever. __Warning__: Please make sure you have a check that exits your loop, otherwise it will never end.

As an example, we’re going to use `while true` to print the music of John Cage’s piece 4’33” – if you didn’t know, it’s famous because it’s 4 minutes and 33 seconds of complete silence.

We can write the “music” for this piece using `while true`, with a condition that exits the loop when we’ve gone around enough times:

```swift
var counter = 0

while true {
    print(" ")
    counter += 1

    if counter == 273 {
        break
    }
}
```

:::

::: info 7. Infinite loops - Additional 

- Optional: [Why would you want to make an infinite loop?][why-would-you-want-to-make-an-infinite-loop]
- Test: [Infinite loops][test-infinite-loops]

:::


### 8. Looping summary

::: details 8. Looping summary 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/4/8/looping-summary)

<YouTube id="5-lJsWsYXSs" />

You’ve made it to the end of the fourth part of this series, so let’s summarize:

1. Loops let us repeat code until a condition is false.
2. The most common loop is `for`, which assigns each item inside the loop to a temporary constant.
3. If you don’t need the temporary constant that `for` loops give you, use an underscore instead so Swift can skip that work.
4. There are `while` loops, which you provide with an explicit condition to check.
5. Although they are similar to `while` loops, `repeat` loops always run the body of their loop at least once.
6. You can exit a single loop using `break`, but if you have nested loops you need to use `break` followed by whatever label you placed before your outer loop.
7. You can skip items in a loop using `continue`.
8. Infinite loops don’t end until you ask them to, and are made using `while true`. Make sure you have a condition somewhere to end your infinite loops!

:::


::: info 8. Looping summary - Additional 

- Test: [Looping][test-looping]

:::

[why-does-swift-use-underscores-with-loops]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-does-swift-use-underscores-with-loops
[test-for-loops]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/for-loops

[when-should-you-use-a-while-loop]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-should-you-use-a-while-loop
[test-while-loops]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/while-loops

[when-should-you-use-a-repeat-loop]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-should-you-use-a-repeat-loop
[test-repeat-loops]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/repeat-loops

[why-would-you-want-to-exit-a-loop]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-would-you-want-to-exit-a-loop
[test-exiting-loops]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/exiting-loops

[why-does-swift-have-labeled-statements]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-does-swift-have-labeled-statements
[test-exiting-multiple-loops]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/exiting-multiple-loops

[when-to-use-break-and-when-to-use-continue]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-to-use-break-and-when-to-use-continue
[test-skipping-items]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/skipping-items

[why-would-you-want-to-make-an-infinite-loop]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-would-you-want-to-make-an-infinite-loop
[test-infinite-loops]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/infinite-loops

[test-looping]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/looping-summary

