---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 6
description: 🕊️100 Days of Swift > Day 6
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift" , "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of Swift > Day 6
    content: Day 6
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 6
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of Swift > Day 6
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift-100-days-of-swift/6.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

# Closures, part one

- Brace yourself, because today we’re covering the first thing in Swift that many people have hard time understanding. Please keep in mind Flip Wilson's law: “you can't expect to hit the jackpot if you don't put a few nickels in the machine.”

__Today you have only five one-minute videos to watch, just to make sure you have time to watch videos twice if you need to.__ Once you’ve completed each video you can read the optional extra section, and there’s a short test to help make sure you’ve understood what was taught.

### 1. Creating basic closures

::: details Creating basic closures

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/6/1/creating-basic-closures)

<YouTube id="DcwbxGaV1rc" />

Swift lets us use functions just like any other type such as strings and integers. This means you can create a function and assign it to a variable, call that function using that variable, and even pass that function into other functions as parameters.

Functions used in this way are called closures, and although they work like functions they are written a little differently.

Let’s start with a simple example that prints a message:

```swift
let driving = {
    print("I'm driving in my car")
}
```
That effectively creates a function without a name, and assigns that function to `driving`. You can now call `driving()` as if it were a regular function, like this:

```swift
driving()
```

:::

::: info Creating basic closures - Additional

- Optional: [What the heck are closures and why does Swift love them so much?][what-the-heck-are-closures-and-why-does-swift-love-them-so-much]
- Test: [Creating basic closures][test-creating-basic-closures]

:::

### 2. Accepting parameters in a closure

::: details Accepting parameters in a closure

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/6/2/accepting-parameters-in-a-closure)

<YouTube id="7_0zA5hcpI8" />

When you create closures, they don’t have a name or space to write any parameters. That doesn’t mean they can’t accept parameters, just that they do so in a different way: they are listed inside the open braces.

To make a closure accept parameters, list them inside parentheses just after the opening brace, then write `in` so that Swift knows the main body of the closure is starting.

For example, we could make a closure that accepts a place name string as its only parameter like this:

```swift
let driving = { (place: String) in
    print("I'm going to \(place) in my car")
}
```

One of the differences between functions and closures is that you don’t use parameter labels when running closures. So, to call `driving()` now we’d write this:

```swift
driving("London")
```

:::

::: info Accepting parameters in a closure - Additional

- Optional: [Why are Swift’s closure parameters inside the braces?][why-are-swifts-closure-parameters-inside-the-braces]
- Test: [Accepting parameters in a closure][test-accepting-parameters-in-a-closure]

:::

### 3. Returning values from a closure

::: details Returning values from a closure

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/6/3/returning-values-from-a-closure)

<YouTube id="aS-k5mRWrr4" />

Closures can also return values, and they are written similarly to parameters: you write them inside your closure, directly before the `in` keyword.

To demonstrate this, we’re going to take our `driving()` closure and make it return its value rather than print it directly. Here’s the original:

```swift
let driving = { (place: String) in
    print("I'm going to \(place) in my car")
}
```

We want a closure that returns a string rather than printing the message directly, so we need to use `-> String` before `in`, then use `return` just like a normal function:

```swift
let drivingWithReturn = { (place: String) -> String in
    return "I'm going to \(place) in my car"
}
```

We can now run that closure and print its return value:

```swift
let message = drivingWithReturn("London")
print(message)
```

:::

::: info Returning values from a closure - Additional

- Optional: [How do you return a value from a closure that takes no parameters?][how-do-you-return-a-value-from-a-closure-that-takes-no-parameters]
- Test: [Returning values from a closure][test-returning-values-from-a-closure]

:::

### 4. Closures as parameters

::: details Closures as parameters

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/6/4/closures-as-parameters)

<YouTube id="C18O5ylFA50" />

Because closures can be used just like strings and integers, you can pass them into functions. The syntax for this can hurt your brain at first, so we’re going to take it slow.

First, here’s our basic `driving()` closure again

```swift
let driving = {
    print("I'm driving in my car")
}
```
If we wanted to pass that closure into a function so it can be run inside that function, we would specify the parameter type as `() -> Void`. That means “accepts no parameters, and returns `Void”` – Swift’s way of saying “nothing”.

So, we can write a `travel()` function that accepts different kinds of traveling actions, and prints a message before and after:

```swift
func travel(action: () -> Void) {
    print("I'm getting ready to go.")
    action()
    print("I arrived!")
}
```
We can now call that using our `driving` closure, like this:

```swift
travel(action: driving)
```
:::

::: info Closures as parameters - Additional

- Optional: [Why would you want to use closures as parameters?][why-would-you-want-to-use-closures-as-parameters]
- Test: [Closures as parameters][test-closures-as-parameters]

:::

### 5. Trailing closure syntax

::: details Trailing closure syntax

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/6/5/trailing-closure-syntax)

<YouTube id="aOf23RcQdr8" />

If the last parameter to a function is a closure, Swift lets you use special syntax called trailing closure syntax. Rather than pass in your closure as a parameter, you pass it directly after the function inside braces.

To demonstrate this, here’s our `travel()` function again. It accepts an `action` closure so that it can be run between two `print()` calls:

```swift
func travel(action: () -> Void) {
    print("I'm getting ready to go.")
    action()
    print("I arrived!")
}
```

Because its last parameter is a closure, we can call `travel()` using trailing closure syntax like this:

```swift
travel() {
    print("I'm driving in my car")
}
```

In fact, because there aren’t any other parameters, we can eliminate the parentheses entirely:

```swift
travel {
    print("I'm driving in my car")
}
```

Trailing closure syntax is extremely common in Swift, so it’s worth getting used to.

:::

::: info Trailing closure syntax - Additional

- Optional: [Why does Swift have trailing closure syntax?][why-does-swift-have-trailing-closure-syntax]
- Test: [Trailing closure syntax][test-trailing-closure-syntax]

:::

Sometimes people ask me “why do you start some topics by saying they are hard – aren’t you just putting people off?”

Obviously my goal is not to put you off Swift. Instead, my hope is that when you struggle with something you don’t ever think to yourself “I’m not cut out for Swift.” If you find closures hard it’s not because you aren’t smart enough – they are hard, so it’s just a sign your brain is working properly.

Don’t despair. Sometimes fighting to learn something makes it stick in your head better – there is no learning without struggle!

__You can do this.__

[what-the-heck-are-closures-and-why-does-swift-love-them-so-much]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/what-the-heck-are-closures-and-why-does-swift-love-them-so-much
[test-creating-basic-closures]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/creating-basic-closures

[why-are-swifts-closure-parameters-inside-the-braces]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-are-swifts-closure-parameters-inside-the-braces
[test-accepting-parameters-in-a-closure]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/accepting-parameters-in-a-closure

[how-do-you-return-a-value-from-a-closure-that-takes-no-parameters]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/how-do-you-return-a-value-from-a-closure-that-takes-no-parameters
[test-returning-values-from-a-closure]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/returning-values-from-a-closure

[why-would-you-want-to-use-closures-as-parameters]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-would-you-want-to-use-closures-as-parameters
[test-closures-as-parameters]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/closures-as-parameters

[why-does-swift-have-trailing-closure-syntax]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-does-swift-have-trailing-closure-syntax
[test-trailing-closure-syntax]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/trailing-closure-syntax
