---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 63
description: 🕊️100 Days of Swift > Day 63
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift" , "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of Swift > Day 63
    content: Day 63
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 63
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of Swift > Day 63
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift-100-days-of-swift/63.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Project 17, part two

When you follow this course you are, in a way, following in my footsteps. I lay out a path for you to follow, showing you how to make a variety of apps and games, and give you tips and advice to help you stay on track.

But every couple of days comes a day like this one – a day where there is no track laid down by me, and it’s down to you to go through my review questions and complete the challenges all by yourself.

These days are really important. As Mahatma Gandhi said, “An ounce of practice is worth more than tons of preaching.” Well, it’s time for the preaching to stop and for your practice to begin!

Today you should work through the wrap up chapter for project 17, complete its review, then work through all three of its challenges.

### Wrap up

::: details Wrap up

[link](https://www.hackingwithswift.com/read/17/5/wrap-up)

<YouTube id="AFXoDvDkxYA" />

That's it! We just made a game in 20 minutes or so, which shows you just how fast SpriteKit is. I even showed you how per-pixel collision detection works (it's so easy!), how to advance particle systems so they start life with some history behind them, how to run code repeatedly using `Timer`, and how to adjust linear and angular damping so that objects don't slow down over time.

#### Review what you learned

Anyone can sit through a tutorial, but it takes actual work to remember what was taught. It’s my job to make sure you take as much from these tutorials as possible, so I’ve prepared a short review to help you check your learning.

[Click here to review what you learned in project 17.][project-17-space-race]

#### Challenge

One of the best ways to learn is to write your own code as often as possible, so here are three ways you should try your new knowledge to make sure you fully understand what’s going on:

1. Stop the player from cheating by lifting their finger and tapping elsewhere – try implementing `touchesEnded()` to make it work.
2. Make the timer start at one second, but then after 20 enemies have been made subtract 0.1 seconds from it so it’s triggered every 0.9 seconds. After making 20 more, subtract another 0.1, and so on. Note: you should call `invalidate()` on `gameTimer` before giving it a new value, otherwise you end up with multiple timers.
3. Stop creating space debris after the player has died.


:::

::: info Wrap up - Additional

[Review for Project 17: Space Race][project-17-space-race]

:::

That’s another game finished, and in record time too – make a video and show others!


---

<TagLinks />

[project-17-space-race]: https://www.hackingwithswift.com/review/hws/project-17-space-race
