---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 79
description: 🕊️100 Days of Swift > Day 79
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift" , "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of Swift > Day 79
    content: Day 79
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 79
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of Swift > Day 79
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift-100-days-of-swift/79.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Project 23, part three

With that monster project finished, there are four things you need to do:

1. Feel smug that you made an awesome game.
2. Play that awesome game and post your best scores on social media.
3. Complete the review for project 23.
4. Complete all three challenges

At this point in the 100 days there’s a good chance you’re feeling tired, and might even be tempted to skip a few of these challenges. I hope you don’t, though – these challenges are here to help stretch you a little, and to make sure you’re able to apply what you learned in a new context.

Shigeru Miyamoto – the legendary Japanese game designer who gave us Mario, Zelda, Donkey Kong, and more – once said “to create a new standard, you have to be up for that challenge and really enjoy it.” That’s the goal here: every time you dive into a challenge and get it solved, you’re leveling up your Swift skills, and setting a new standard for what you can do in the future.

Trust me: by the time you’ve finished these 100 days and completed all the challenges, all the milestones, and all the reviews, the standard you’ll be working to will be unrecognizably different from where you were on day 1 – you’re doing a great job!

__Today you should work through the wrap up chapter for project 23, complete its review, then work through all three of its challenges.__

### Wrap up

::: details Wrap up

[📎link](https://www.hackingwithswift.com/read/23/8/wrap-up)

<YouTube id="kb1a_23dHaE" />

You've just finished a massive project, and regardless of how much you have learned you deserve kudos for all your patience. This project required you to follow several long steps before you could see your code run. I hope it was worth it, and I hope in retrospect that you can see why all the code was needed.

Along the way, you've learned all about `SKShapeNode`, `AVAudioPlayer`, physics speed, `CaseIterable`, `removeFirst()`, action groups, and more, so you're several steps closer to your goal of being an experienced Swift developer. Well done!

#### Review what you learned

Anyone can sit through a tutorial, but it takes actual work to remember what was taught. It’s my job to make sure you take as much from these tutorials as possible, so I’ve prepared a short review to help you check your learning.

[Click here to review what you learned in project 23.][project-23-swifty-ninja]

#### Challenge

One of the best ways to learn is to write your own code as often as possible, so here are three ways you should try your new knowledge to make sure you fully understand what’s going on:

1. Try removing the magic numbers in the `createEnemy()` method. Instead, define them as constant properties of your class, giving them useful names.
2. Create a new, fast-moving type of enemy that awards the player bonus points if they hit it.
3. Add a “Game over” sprite node to the game scene when the player loses all their lives.

:::

::: info Wrap up - Additional 

[Review for Project 23: Swifty Ninja][project-23-swifty-ninja]

:::

---

<TagLinks />

[project-23-swifty-ninja]: https://www.hackingwithswift.com/review/hws/project-23-swifty-ninja