---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 8
description: 🕊️100 Days of Swift > Day 8
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift" , "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of Swift > Day 8
    content: Day 8
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 8
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of Swift > Day 8
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift-100-days-of-swift/8.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Structs, part one

I know some of you might be keen to charge on with today’s new Swift learning, but hold up: you just finished learning about closures, which are a difficult topic. And you came back for more. Seriously, that deserves a lot of respect.

And I have some good news for you. First, not only will we be covering closures again in a consolidation day next week, but soon enough we’ll also start putting them into practice in real iOS projects. So, even if you aren’t 100% sure of how they work or why they are needed, it will all become clear – stick with it!

Anyway, today’s topic is _structs_. Structs let us create our own data types out of several small types. For example, you might put three strings and a boolean together and say that represents a user in your app.

These custom types – users, games, documents, and more – form the real core of the software we build. If you get those right then often your code will follow.

As Fred Brooks, the author of the hugely influential book _The Mythical Man-Month_, once said, “the programmer at wit’s end... can often do best by disentangling themself from their code, rearing back, and contemplating their data. Representation is the essence of programming.”

__Today you have seven one-minute videos to watch__, and you’ll learn how to create your own types, adding properties, methods, and more. Once you’ve completed each video, there is a short piece of optional extra reading if you’re looking to get some more details, and there’s also a short test to help make sure you’ve understood what was taught.

### 1. Creating your own structs

::: details 1. Creating your own structs 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/1/creating-your-own-structs)

<YouTube id="6Acs8xFLED0" />

Swift lets you design your own types in two ways, of which the most common are called structures, or just structs. Structs can be given their own variables and constants, and their own functions, then created and used however you want.

Let’s start with a simple example: we’re going to create a `Sport` struct that stores its name as a string. Variables inside structs are called properties, so this is a struct with one property:

```swift
struct Sport {
    var name: String
}
```

That defines the type, so now we can create and use an instance of it:

```swift
var tennis = Sport(name: "Tennis")
print(tennis.name)
```

We made both `name` and `tennis` variable, so we can change them just like regular variables:

```swift
tennis.name = "Lawn tennis"
```

Properties can have default values just like regular variables, and you can usually rely on Swift’s type inference.

:::

::: info 1. Creating your own structs - Additional

- Optional: [What’s the difference between a struct and a tuple?][whats-the-difference-between-a-struct-and-a-tuple]
- Test: [Creating your own structs][test-creating-your-own-structs]

:::

### 2. Computed properties

::: details 2. Computed properties 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/2/computed-properties)

<YouTube id="IQ-81kahQts" />


We just created a `Sport` struct like this:

```swift
struct Sport {
    var name: String
}
```

That has a name property that stores a `String`. These are called stored properties, because Swift has a different kind of property called a computed property – a property that runs code to figure out its value.

We’re going to add another stored property to the `Sport` struct, then a computed property. Here’s how that looks:

```swift
struct Sport {
    var name: String
    var isOlympicSport: Bool

    var olympicStatus: String {
        if isOlympicSport {
            return "\(name) is an Olympic sport"
        } else {
            return "\(name) is not an Olympic sport"
        }
    }
}
```

As you can see, `olympicStatus` looks like a regular `String`, but it returns different values depending on the other properties.

We can try it out by creating a new instance of `Sport`:

```swift
let chessBoxing = Sport(name: "Chessboxing", isOlympicSport: false)
print(chessBoxing.olympicStatus)
```

:::

::: info 2. Computed properties - Additional

- Optional: [When should you use a computed property or a stored property?][when-should-you-use-a-computed-property-or-a-stored-property]
- Test: [Computed properties][test-computed-properties]

:::

### 3. Property observers

::: details 3. Property observers 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/3/property-observers)

<YouTube id="qdXf12Q0qDo" />


Property observers let you run code before or after any property changes. To demonstrate this, we’ll write a `Progress` struct that tracks a task and a completion percentage:

```swift
struct Progress {
    var task: String
    var amount: Int
}
```

We can now create an instance of that struct and adjust its progress over time:

```swift
var progress = Progress(task: "Loading data", amount: 0)
progress.amount = 30
progress.amount = 80
progress.amount = 100
```

What we want to happen is for Swift to print a message every time `amount` changes, and we can use a `didSet` property observer for that. This will run some code every time `amount` changes:

```swift
struct Progress {
    var task: String
    var amount: Int {
        didSet {
            print("\(task) is now \(amount)% complete")
        }
    }
}
```

You can also use `willSet` to take action before a property changes, but that is rarely used.

:::

::: info 3. Property observers - Additional

- Optional: [When should you use property observers?][when-should-you-use-property-observers]
- Optional: [When should you use willSet rather than didSet?][when-should-you-use-willset-rather-than-didset]
- Test: [Property observers][test-property-observers]

:::

### 4. Methods

::: details 4. Methods 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/4/methods)

<YouTube id="y5TjjwOMQwY" />

Structs can have functions inside them, and those functions can use the properties of the struct as they need to. Functions inside structs are called methods, but they still use the same `func` keyword.

We can demonstrate this with a `City` struct. This will have a `population` property that stores how many people are in the city, plus a `collectTaxes()` method that returns the population count multiplied by 1000. Because the method belongs to `City` it can read the current city’s `population` property.

Here’s the code:

```swift
struct City {
    var population: Int

    func collectTaxes() -> Int {
        return population * 1000
    }
}
```

That method belongs to the struct, so we call it on instances of the struct like this:

```swift
let london = City(population: 9_000_000)
london.collectTaxes()
```

:::

::: info 4. Methods - Additional

- Optional: [What’s the difference between a function and a method?][whats-the-difference-between-a-function-and-a-method]
- Test: [Methods][test-methods]

:::

### 5. Mutating methods

::: details 5. Mutating methods 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/5/mutating-methods)

<YouTube id="8T5vQnMspko" />

If a struct has a variable property but the instance of the struct was created as a constant, that property can’t be changed – the struct is constant, so all its properties are also constant regardless of how they were created.

The problem is that when you create the struct Swift has no idea whether you will use it with constants or variables, so by default it takes the safe approach: Swift won’t let you write methods that change properties unless you specifically request it.

When you _want_ to change a property inside a method, you need to mark it using the `mutating` keyword, like this:

```swift
struct Person {
    var name: String

    mutating func makeAnonymous() {
        name = "Anonymous"
    }
}
```

Because it changes the property, Swift will only allow that method to be called on `Person` instances that are variables:

```swift
var person = Person(name: "Ed")
person.makeAnonymous()
```


:::

::: info 5. Mutating methods - Additional

- Optional: [Why do we need to mark some methods as mutating?][why-do-we-need-to-mark-some-methods-as-mutating]
- Test: [Mutating methods][test-mutating-methods]

:::

### 6. Properties and methods of strings

::: details 6. Properties and methods of strings 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/6/properties-and-methods-of-strings)

<YouTube id="ldGno_JrHEA" />

We’ve used lots of strings so far, and it turns out they are structs – they have their own methods and properties we can use to query and manipulate the string.

First, let’s create a test string:

```swift
let string = "Do or do not, there is no try."
```

You can read the number of characters in a string using its `count` property:

```swift
print(string.count)
```

They have a `hasPrefix()` method that returns true if the string starts with specific letters:

```swift
print(string.hasPrefix("Do"))
```

You can uppercase a string by calling its `uppercased()` method:

```swift
print(string.uppercased())
```

And you can even have Swift sort the letters of the string into an array:

```swift
print(string.sorted())
```

Strings have lots more properties and methods – try typing `string`. to bring up Xcode’s code completion options.

:::

::: info 6. Properties and methods of strings - Additional

- Optional: [Why are strings structs in Swift?][why-are-strings-structs-in-swift]
- Test: [Properties and methods of strings][test-properties-and-methods-of-strings]

:::

### 7. Properties and methods of arrays

::: details 7. Properties and methods of arrays 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/7/properties-and-methods-of-arrays)

<YouTube id="Vy_Xn86wga4" />

Arrays are also structs, which means they too have their own methods and properties we can use to query and manipulate the array.

Here’s a simple array to get us started:

```swift
var toys = ["Woody"]
```

You can read the number of items in an array using its `count` property:

```swift
print(toys.count)
```

If you want to add a new item, use the `append()` method like this:

```swift
toys.append("Buzz")
```

You can locate any item inside an array using its `firstIndex()` method, like this:

```swift
toys.firstIndex(of: "Buzz")
```

That will return 1 because arrays count from 0.

Just like with strings, you can have Swift sort the items of the array alphabetically:

```swift
print(toys.sorted())
```

Finally, if you want to remove an item, use the `remove()` method like this:

```swift
toys.remove(at: 0)
```

Arrays have lots more properties and methods – try typing toys. to bring up Xcode’s code completion options.


:::

::: info 7. Properties and methods of arrays - Additional

- Optional: [Why do strings behave differently from arrays in Swift?][why-do-strings-behave-differently-from-arrays-in-swift]
- Test: [Properties and methods of arrays][test-properties-and-methods-of-arrays]

:::


[whats-the-difference-between-a-struct-and-a-tuple]: quick-start/understanding-swift/whats-the-difference-between-a-struct-and-a-tuple
[test-creating-your-own-structs]: review/creating-your-own-structs

[when-should-you-use-a-computed-property-or-a-stored-property]: quick-start/understanding-swift/when-should-you-use-a-computed-property-or-a-stored-property
[test-computed-properties]: review/computed-properties

[when-should-you-use-property-observers]: quick-start/understanding-swift/when-should-you-use-property-observers
[when-should-you-use-willset-rather-than-didset]: quick-start/understanding-swift/when-should-you-use-willset-rather-than-didset
[test-property-observers]: review/property-observers

[whats-the-difference-between-a-function-and-a-method]: quick-start/understanding-swift/whats-the-difference-between-a-function-and-a-method
[test-methods]: review/methods

[why-do-we-need-to-mark-some-methods-as-mutating]: quick-start/understanding-swift/why-do-we-need-to-mark-some-methods-as-mutating
[test-mutating-methods]: review/mutating-methods

[why-are-strings-structs-in-swift]: quick-start/understanding-swift/why-are-strings-structs-in-swift
[test-properties-and-methods-of-strings]: review/properties-and-methods-of-strings

[why-do-strings-behave-differently-from-arrays-in-swift]: quick-start/understanding-swift/why-do-strings-behave-differently-from-arrays-in-swift
[test-properties-and-methods-of-arrays]: review/properties-and-methods-of-arrays
