---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 9
description: 🕊️100 Days of Swift > Day 9
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift" , "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of Swift > Day 9
    content: Day 9
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 9
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of Swift > Day 9
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift-100-days-of-swift/9.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Structs, part two

As you’ve seen, structs let us combine individual pieces of data to make something new, then attach methods so we can manipulate that data.

Today you’re going to learn about some of the more advanced features of structs that make them more powerful, including access control, static properties, and laziness. Yes, _laziness_ – Bill Gates once said, “I choose a lazy person to do a hard job, Because a lazy person will find an easy way to do it.” In Swift, laziness is an important performance optimization, as you’ll see.

__Today you have six one-minute videos to watch__, and as always once you’ve completed each video there’s some optional extra reading and a short test to help make sure you’ve understood what was taught.

### 1. Initializers

::: details 1. Initializers 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/8/initializers)

<YouTube id="k6NvWnmjIf4" />

Initializers are special methods that provide different ways to create your struct. All structs come with one by default, called their memberwise initializer – this asks you to provide a value for each property when you create the struct.

You can see this if we create a `User` struct that has one property:

```swift
struct User {
    var username: String
}
```

When we create one of those structs, we must provide a username:

```swift
var user = User(username: "twostraws")
```

We can provide our own initializer to replace the default one. For example, we might want to create all new users as “Anonymous” and print a message, like this:

```swift
struct User {
    var username: String

    init() {
        username = "Anonymous"
        print("Creating a new user!")
    }
}
```

You don’t write `func` before initializers, but you do need to make sure all properties have a value before the initializer ends.

Now our initializer accepts no parameters, we need to create the struct like this:

```swift
var user = User()
user.username = "twostraws"
```

:::

::: info 1. Initializers - Additional

- Optional: [How do Swift’s memberwise initializers work?][how-do-swifts-memberwise-initializers-work]
- Test: [Initializers][test-initializers]

:::

### 2. Referring to the current instance

::: details 2. Referring to the current instance 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/9/referring-to-the-current-instance)

<YouTube id="ZFz3KORr8Bw" />

Inside methods you get a special constant called `self`, which points to whatever instance of the struct is currently being used. This `self` value is particularly useful when you create initializers that have the same parameter names as your property.

For example, if you create a `Person` struct with a `name` property, then tried to write an initializer that accepted a `name` parameter, `self` helps you distinguish between the property and the parameter – `self.name` refers to the property, whereas `name` refers to the parameter.

Here’s that in code:

```swift
struct Person {
    var name: String

    init(name: String) {
        print("\(name) was born!")
        self.name = name
    }
}
```

:::

::: info 2. Referring to the current instance - Additional

- Optional: [When would you use self in a method?][when-would-you-use-self-in-a-method]
- Test: [Referring to the current instance][test-referring-to-the-current-instance]

:::

### 3. Lazy properties

::: details 3. Lazy properties 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/10/lazy-properties)

<YouTube id="fau8QgH0pIA" />

As a performance optimization, Swift lets you create some properties only when they are needed. As an example, consider this `FamilyTree` struct – it doesn’t do much, but in theory creating a family tree for someone takes a long time:

```swift
struct FamilyTree {
    init() {
        print("Creating family tree!")
    }
}
```

We might use that `FamilyTree` struct as a property inside a `Person` struct, like this:

```swift
struct Person {
    var name: String
    var familyTree = FamilyTree()

    init(name: String) {
        self.name = name
    }
}

var ed = Person(name: "Ed")
```

But what if we didn’t always need the family tree for a particular person? If we add the `lazy` keyword to the `familyTree` property, then Swift will only create the `FamilyTree` struct when it’s first accessed:

```swift
lazy var familyTree = FamilyTree()
```

So, if you want to see the “Creating family tree!” message, you need to access the property at least once:

```swift
ed.familyTree
```


:::

::: info 3. Lazy properties - Additional

- Optional: [When should properties be lazy?][when-should-properties-be-lazy]
- Test: [Lazy properties][test-lazy-properties]

:::

### 4. Static properties and methods

::: details 4. Static properties and methods 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/11/static-properties-and-methods)

<YouTube id="4Y1zZwJOBNk" />

All the properties and methods we’ve created so far have belonged to individual instances of structs, which means that if we had a `Student` struct we could create several student instances each with their own properties and methods:

```swift
struct Student {
    var name: String

    init(name: String) {
        self.name = name
    }
}

let ed = Student(name: "Ed")
let taylor = Student(name: "Taylor")
```

You can also ask Swift to share specific properties and methods across all instances of the struct by declaring them as static.

To try this out, we’re going to add a static property to the `Student` struct to store how many students are in the class. Each time we create a new student, we’ll add one to it:

```swift
struct Student {
    static var classSize = 0
    var name: String

    init(name: String) {
        self.name = name
        Student.classSize += 1
    }
}
```

Because the `classSize` property belongs to the struct itself rather than instances of the struct, we need to read it using `Student.classSize`:

```swift
print(Student.classSize)
```


:::

::: info 4. Static properties and methods - Additional

- Optional: [What’s the point of static properties and methods in Swift?][whats-the-point-of-static-properties-and-methods-in-swift]
- Test: [Static properties and methods][test-static-properties-and-methods]

:::

### 5. Access control

::: details 5. Access control 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/12/access-control)

<YouTube id="FrXYhufwSZc" />

Access control lets you restrict which code can use properties and methods. This is important because you might want to stop people reading a property directly, for example.

We could create a `Person` struct that has an `id` property to store their social security number:

```swift
struct Person {
    var id: String

    init(id: String) {
        self.id = id
    }
}

let ed = Person(id: "12345")
```

Once that person has been created, we can make their `id` be private so you can’t read it from outside the struct – trying to write `ed.id` simply won’t work.

Just use the `private` keyword, like this:

```swift
struct Person {
    private var id: String

    init(id: String) {
        self.id = id
    }
}
```

Now only methods inside `Person` can read the `id` property. For example:

```swift
struct Person {
    private var id: String

    init(id: String) {
        self.id = id
    }

    func identify() -> String {
        return "My social security number is \(id)"
    }
}
```

Another common option is `public`, which lets all other code use the property or method.

:::

::: info 5. Access control - Additional

- Optional: [What’s the point of access control?][whats-the-point-of-access-control]
- Test: [Access control][test-access-control]

:::

### 6. Structs summary

::: details 6. Structs summary 

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/7/13/structs-summary)

<YouTube id="q8El3m2dl-Q" />

You’ve made it to the end of the seventh part of this series, so let’s summarize:

1. You can create your own types using structures, which can have their own properties and methods.
2. You can use stored properties or use computed properties to calculate values on the fly.
3. If you want to change a property inside a method, you must mark it as `mutating`.
4. Initializers are special methods that create structs. You get a memberwise initializer by default, but if you create your own you must give all properties a value.
5. Use the `self` constant to refer to the current instance of a struct inside a method.
6. The `lazy` keyword tells Swift to create properties only when they are first used.
7. You can share properties and methods across all instances of a struct using the `static` keyword.
8. Access control lets you restrict what code can use properties and methods.

:::

::: info 6. Structs summary - Additional

- Test: [Structs][test-structs-summary]

:::

That’s another key Swift topic under your belt – good job! Now do the smart thing and post your progress online: it forces you to write about these things in your own words, and also encourages you to continue on to tomorrow.



[how-do-swifts-memberwise-initializers-work]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/how-do-swifts-memberwise-initializers-work
[test-initializers]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/initializers

[when-would-you-use-self-in-a-method]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-would-you-use-self-in-a-method
[test-referring-to-the-current-instance]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/referring-to-the-current-instance

[when-should-properties-be-lazy]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-should-properties-be-lazy
[test-lazy-properties]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/lazy-properties

[whats-the-point-of-static-properties-and-methods-in-swift]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/whats-the-point-of-static-properties-and-methods-in-swift
[test-static-properties-and-methods]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/static-properties-and-methods

[whats-the-point-of-access-control]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/whats-the-point-of-access-control
[test-access-control]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/access-control

[test-structs-summary]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/structs-summary