---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 24
description: 🕊️100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 24
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift", "swiftui", "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 24
    content: Day 24
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 24
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 24
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/explore/crashcourse/paul-hudson-100-days-of-swiftui/24.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Project 3, part 2

Albert Einstein once said, “any fool can know; the point is to understand,” and this project was specifically about giving you a deeper understanding of what makes SwiftUI tick. After all, you’ll be spending the next 76 days working with it, so it’s a good idea to make sure your foundations are rock solid before moving on.

I could have said to you “SwiftUI uses structs for views” or “SwiftUI uses `some View` a lot”, and in fact _did_ say exactly that to begin with when it was all you needed to know. But now that you’re progressing beyond the basics, it’s important to feel comfortable with what you’re using – to eliminate the nagging sense that you don’t quite get what something is for when you look at your code.

So much of Swift was built specifically for SwiftUI, so don’t be worried if you’re looking at some of the features and thinking they are way beyond your level. If you think about it, they were well above _everyone’s_ level until Swift shipped with them!

__Today you should work through the wrap up chapter for project 3, complete its review, then work through all three of its challenges.__

### Views and modifiers: Wrap up

::: details Views and modifiers: Wrap up

These technique projects are designed to dive deep into specific SwiftUI topics, and I hope you’ve learned a lot about views and modifiers here – why SwiftUI uses structs for views, why `some View` is so useful, how modifier order matters, and much more.

Views and modifiers are the fundamental building blocks of any SwiftUI app, which is why I wanted to focus on them so early in this course. View composition is particularly key, as it allows to build small, reusable views that can be assembled like bricks into larger user interfaces.

#### Review what you learned

Anyone can sit through a tutorial, but it takes actual work to remember what was taught. It’s my job to make sure you take as much from these tutorials as possible, so I’ve prepared a short review to help you check your learning.

[Click here to review what you learned in this project.][views-and-modifiers]

#### Challenge

One of the best ways to learn is to write your own code as often as possible, so here are three ways you should try extending this app to make sure you fully understand what’s going on:

1. Go back to project 1 and use a conditional modifier to change the total amount text view to red if the user selects a 0% tip.
2. Go back to project 2 and replace the `Image` view used for flags with a new `FlagImage()` view that renders one flag image using the specific set of modifiers we had.
3. Create a custom `ViewModifier` (and accompanying `View` extension) that makes a view have a large, blue font suitable for prominent titles in a view.

:::

::: info Views and modifiers: Wrap up - Additional

[Review for Project 3: Views and Modifiers][views-and-modifiers]

:::

Once you’re done, don’t forget to stay accountable and tell other people about your progress!

[views-and-modifiers]: https://www.hackingwithswift.com/review/ios-swiftui/views-and-modifiers