---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 3
description: 🥁Crashcourse > 🕊️100 Days of Swift > Day 3
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift" , "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: Crashcourse > 100 Days of Swift > Day 3
    content: Day 3
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 3
  - property: og:description
    content: Crashcourse > 100 Days of Swift > Day 3
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/explore/crashcourse/paul-hudson-100-days-of-swift/3.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Operators and conditions

Today we’re going to get into the real detail of Swift: operators and conditions. This can sometimes trip folks up when they are learning, because as Joseph Campbell once said, “computers are like Old Testament gods: lots of rules and no mercy.”

Don’t worry, though. Sure, if you get a condition wrong then your code might not work at first, but it costs nothing other than a little head scratching to fix it up and try again.

__Today you have ten one-minute videos to watch, and you’ll meet things like operator overloading, switch statements, and more.__ After watching each video you’re welcome to go through the optional extra reading if you want, and as always there’s a short test to help make sure you’ve understood what was taught.

### 1. Arithmetic Operators

::: details 1. Arithmetic Operators

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/3/1/arithmetic-operators)

<YouTube id="uevi0SIeuGQ" />

Now you know all the basic types in Swift, we can start to put them together using operators. Operators are those little mathematical symbols like `+` and `-`, and Swift has a huge range of them.

Here are a couple of test variables for us to work with:

```swift
let firstScore = 12
let secondScore = 4
```

We can add and subtract using `+` and `-`:

```swift
let total = firstScore + secondScore
let difference = firstScore - secondScore
```

And we can multiply and divide using `*` and `/`:

```swift
let product = firstScore * secondScore
let divided = firstScore / secondScore
```

Swift has a special operator for calculating remainders after division:`%`. It calculates how many times one number can fit inside another, then sends back the value that’s left over.

For example, we set `secondScore` to 4, so if we say `13 % secondScore` we’ll get back one, because 4 fits into 13 three times with remainder one:

```swift
let remainder = 13 % secondScore
```

:::

::: info 1. Arithmetic Operators - Additional

- Optional: [Why can’t Swift add a Double to an Int?][why-cant-swift-add-a-double-to-an-int]
- Optional: [Why does Swift have a dedicated division remainder operator?][why-does-swift-have-a-dedicated-division-remainder-operator]
- Test: [Arithmetic operators][test-arithmetic-operators]

:::

### 2. Operator overloading

::: details 2. Operator overloading

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/3/2/operator-overloading)

<YouTube id="hQLBDnMR8f8" />

Swift supports operator overloading, which is a fancy way of saying that what an operator does depends on the values you use it with. For example, `+` sums integers like this:

```swift
let meaningOfLife = 42
let doubleMeaning = 42 + 42
```

But `+` also joins strings, like this:

```swift
let fakers = "Fakers gonna "
let action = fakers + "fake"
```

You can even use `+` to join arrays, like this:

```swift
let firstHalf = ["John", "Paul"]
let secondHalf = ["George", "Ringo"]
let beatles = firstHalf + secondHalf
```

Remember, Swift is a type-safe language, which means it won’t let you mix types. For example, you can’t add an integer to a string because it doesn’t make any sense.

:::

::: info 2. Operator overloading - Additional 

- Optional: [Why does Swift need operator overloading?][why-does-swift-need-operator-overloading]
- Test: [Operator overloading][test-operator-overloading]

:::


### 3. Compound assignment operators

::: details 3. Compound assignment operators

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/3/3/compound-assignment-operators)

<YouTube id="5y2wcttlE5s" />

Swift has shorthand operators that combine one operator with an assignment, so you can change a variable in place. These look like the existing operators you know – `+`, `-`, `*`, and `/`, but they have an `=` on the end because they assign the result back to whatever variable you were using.

For example, if someone scored 95 in an exam but needs to be penalized 5 points, you could write this:

```swift
var score = 95
score -= 5
```
Similarly, you can add one string to another using `+=`:

```swift
var quote = "The rain in Spain falls mainly on the "
quote += "Spaniards"
```

:::

::: info 3. Compound assignment operators - Additional

- Optional: [Why does Swift have compound assignment operators?][why-does-swift-have-compound-assignment-operators]
- Test: [Compound assignment operators][test-compound-assignment-operators]

:::


### 4. Comparison operators

::: details 4. Comparison operators

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/3/4/comparison-operators)

<YouTube id="atqX9mP-Oe4" />

Swift has several operators that perform comparison, and these work more or less like you would expect in mathematics.

Let’s start with a couple of example variables so we have something to work with:

```swift
let firstScore = 6
let secondScore = 4
```

There are two operators that check for equality: `==` checks two values are the same, and `!=` (pronounced “not equals”) checks two values are not the same:

```swift
firstScore == secondScore
firstScore != secondScore
```

There are four operators for comparing whether one value is greater than, less than, or equal to another. These are just like in mathematics:

```swift
firstScore < secondScore
firstScore >= secondScore
```

Each of these also work with strings, because strings have a natural alphabetical order:

```swift
"Taylor" <= "Swift"
```

:::

::: info 4. Comparison operators - Additional

- Optional: [How does Swift let us compare many types of data?][how-does-swift-let-us-compare-many-types-of-data]
- Test: [Comparison operators][test-comparison-operators]

::: 

### 5. Conditions

::: details 5. Conditions

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/3/5/conditions)

<YouTube id="e68cZRlXAMY" />

Now you know some operators you can write conditions using `if` statements. You give Swift a condition, and if that condition is true it will run code of your choosing.

To try this out, I want to use a Swift function called `print()`: you run it with some text, and it will be printed out.

We can use conditions to check for a winning Blackjack hand:

```swift
let firstCard = 11
let secondCard = 10

if firstCard + secondCard == 21 {
    print("Blackjack!")
}
```

The code inside the braces – `{` and `}` – will be run if the condition is true. If you want you can provide alternative code to run if the condition is _false_, using `else`:

```swift
if firstCard + secondCard == 21 {
    print("Blackjack!")
} else {
    print("Regular cards")
}
```

You can also chain conditions together using `else if`:

```swift
if firstCard + secondCard == 2 {
    print("Aces – lucky!")
} else if firstCard + secondCard == 21 {
    print("Blackjack!")
} else {
    print("Regular cards")
}
```

:::

::: info 5. Conditions - Additional

- Optional: [What’s the difference between if and else if?][whats-the-difference-between-if-and-else-if]
- Test: [Conditions][test-conditions]

:::

### 6. Combining conditions

::: details 6. Combining conditions

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/3/6/combining-conditions)

<YouTube id="MJ8LnIliTRg" />

Swift has two special operators that let us combine conditions together: they are `&&` (pronounced “and”) and `||` (pronounced “or”).

For example, we could check that the age of two people are both over a certain value like this:

```swift
let age1 = 12
let age2 = 21

if age1 > 18 && age2 > 18 {
    print("Both are over 18")
}
```

That `print()` call will only happen if both ages are over 18, which they aren’t. In fact, Swift won’t even bother checking the value of `age2` because it can see that `age1` already failed the test.

The alternative to `&&` is `||`, which evaluates as true if either item passes the test. For example we could print a message if either age is over 18:

```swift
if age1 > 18 || age2 > 18 {
    print("At least one is over 18")
}
```

You can use `&&` and `||` more than once in a single condition, but don’t make things too complicated otherwise it can be hard to read!

:::

::: info 6. Combining conditions - Additional

- Optional: [How to check multiple conditions][how-to-check-multiple-conditions]
- Test: [Combining conditions][test-combining-conditions]

::: 

### 7. The ternary operator

::: details 7. The ternary operator

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/3/7/the-ternary-operator)

<YouTube id="YbXjxMjJ1xY" />

Swift has a rarely used operator called the ternary operator. It works with three values at once, which is where its name comes from: it checks a condition specified in the first value, and if it’s true returns the second value, but if it’s false returns the third value.

The ternary operator is a condition plus true or false blocks all in one, split up by a question mark and a colon, all of which which makes it rather hard to read. Here’s an example:

```swift
let firstCard = 11
let secondCard = 10
print(firstCard == secondCard ? "Cards are the same" : "Cards are different")
```

That checks whether the two cards are the same, then prints “Cards are the same” if the condition is true, or “Cards are different” if it’s false. We could write the same code using a regular condition:

```swift
if firstCard == secondCard {
    print("Cards are the same")
} else {
    print("Cards are different")
}
```

:::

::: info 7. The ternary operator - Additional

- Optional: [When should you use the ternary operator in Swift?][when-should-you-use-the-ternary-operator-in-swift]
- Test: [The ternary operator][test-the-ternary-operator]

::: 

### 8. Switch statements

::: details 8. Switch statements

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/3/8/switch-statements)

<YouTube id="SiN6DyuT9B8" />

If you have several conditions using `if` and `else if`, it’s often clearer to use a different construct known as `switch case`. Using this approach you write your condition once, then list all possible outcomes and what should happen for each of them.

To try this out, here’s a weather constant containing the string `sunny`:

```swift
let weather = "sunny"
```

We can use a switch block to print one of four different messages:

```swift
switch weather {
case "rain":
    print("Bring an umbrella")
case "snow":
    print("Wrap up warm")
case "sunny":
    print("Wear sunscreen")
default:
    print("Enjoy your day!")
}
```

In that example, the last case – `default` – is required because Swift makes sure you cover all possible cases so that no eventuality is missed off. If the weather is anything other than rain, snow, or sun, the `default` case will be run.

Swift will only run the code inside each case. If you want execution to continue on to the next case, use the `fallthrough` keyword like this:

```swift
switch weather {
case "rain":
    print("Bring an umbrella")
case "snow":
    print("Wrap up warm")
case "sunny":
    print("Wear sunscreen")
    fallthrough
default:
    print("Enjoy your day!")
}
```

:::

::: info 8. Switch statements - Additional

- Optional: [When should you use switch statements rather than if?][when-should-you-use-switch-statements-rather-than-if]
- Test: [Switch statements][test-switch-statements]

:::

### 9. Range operators

::: details 9. Range operators

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/3/9/range-operators)

<YouTube id="FGxEffJ5XUM" />

Swift gives us two ways of making ranges: the `..<` and `...` operators. The half-open range operator, `..<`, creates ranges up to but excluding the final value, and the closed range operator, `...`, creates ranges up to and including the final value.

For example, the range `1..<5` contains the numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4, whereas the range `1...5` contains the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.

Ranges are helpful with `switch` blocks, because you can use them for each of your cases. For example, if someone sat an exam we could print different messages depending on their score:

```swift
let score = 85

switch score {
case 0..<50:
    print("You failed badly.")
case 50..<85:
    print("You did OK.")
default:
    print("You did great!")
}
```

As before, the `default` case must be there to ensure all possible values are covered.

:::

::: info 9. Range operators - Additional

- Optional: [Why does Swift have two range operators?][why-does-swift-have-two-range-operators]
- Test: [Range operators][test-range-operators]

:::

### 10. Operators and conditions summary

::: details 10. Operators and conditions summary

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/sixty/3/10/operators-and-conditions-summary)

<YouTube id="Hhnx3i0o1_c" />

You’ve made it to the end of the third part of this series, so let’s summarize:

1. Swift has operators for doing arithmetic and for comparison; they mostly work like you already know.
2. There are compound variants of arithmetic operators that modify their variables in place: `+=`, `-=`, and so on.
3. You can use `if`, `else`, and `else if` to run code based on the result of a condition.
4. Swift has a ternary operator that combines a check with true and false code blocks. Although you might see it in other code, I wouldn’t recommend using it yourself.
5. If you have multiple conditions using the same value, it’s often clearer to use `switch` instead.
6. You can make ranges using `..<` and `...` depending on whether the last number should be excluded or included.

:::

::: info 10. Operators and conditions summary - Additional

- Test: [Operators and conditions][test-operators-and-conditions]

:::


[why-cant-swift-add-a-double-to-an-int]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-cant-swift-add-a-double-to-an-int
[why-does-swift-have-a-dedicated-division-remainder-operator]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-does-swift-have-a-dedicated-division-remainder-operator
[test-arithmetic-operators]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/arithmetic-operators

[why-does-swift-need-operator-overloading]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-does-swift-need-operator-overloading
[test-operator-overloading]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/operator-overloading

[why-does-swift-have-compound-assignment-operators]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-does-swift-have-compound-assignment-operators
[test-compound-assignment-operators]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/compound-assignment-operators

[how-does-swift-let-us-compare-many-types-of-data]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/how-does-swift-let-us-compare-many-types-of-data
[test-comparison-operators]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/comparison-operators

[whats-the-difference-between-if-and-else-if]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/whats-the-difference-between-if-and-else-if
[test-conditions]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/conditions

[how-to-check-multiple-conditions]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/how-to-check-multiple-conditions
[test-combining-conditions]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/combining-conditions

[when-should-you-use-the-ternary-operator-in-swift]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-should-you-use-the-ternary-operator-in-swift
[test-the-ternary-operator]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/the-ternary-operator

[when-should-you-use-switch-statements-rather-than-if]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-should-you-use-switch-statements-rather-than-if
[test-switch-statements]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/switch-statements

[why-does-swift-have-two-range-operators]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-does-swift-have-two-range-operators
[test-range-operators]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/range-operators

[test-operators-and-conditions]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/operators-and-conditions-summary