---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 16
description: 🕊️100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 16
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift", "swiftui", "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 16
    content: Day 16
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 16
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 16
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift-100-days-of-swiftui/16.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Project 1, part one

Now that you’ve mastered the basics of the Swift language, it’s time to start applying your skills to some real code in our first project.

This project is a check-sharing app that calculates how to split a check based on the number of people and how much tip you want to leave. The project in itself isn’t complicated, but we’ll be taking it slow so you can see exactly how these fundamentals fit together.

In some respects going back to the basics like this will feel odd – you’ve learned about closures, optionals, and throwing functions, and now there’s a bit of a reset as we look at the basics of SwiftUI. But take hope: there’s a lot of value in being able to approach new topics with a fresh mind. As Meister Eckhart said, “be willing to be a beginner every single morning” – do that, and you’ll learn much faster.

Today is the _project overview_ day, which is where we’ll be looking at the isolated pieces of code that you need to understand in order to build our project. Tomorrow we’ll move on to the _implementation_ day, where you’ll put those new techniques into practice with our app.

__Today you have seven topics to work through, and you’ll meet `Form`, `NavigationView`, `@State`, and more.__

### WeSplit: Introduction

::: details WeSplit: Introduction

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/wesplit-introduction)

In this project we’re going to be building a check-splitting app that you might use after eating at a restaurant – you enter the cost of your food, select how much of a tip you want to leave, and how many people you’re with, and it will tell you how much each person needs to pay.

This project isn’t trying to build anything complicated, because its real purpose is to teach you the basics of SwiftUI in a useful way while also giving you a real-world project you can expand on further if you want.

You’ll learn the basics of UI design, how to let users enter values and select from options, and how to track program state. As this is the first project, we’ll be going nice and slow and explaining everything along the way – subsequent projects will slowly increase the speed, but for now we’re taking it easy.

This project – like all the projects that involve building a complete app – is broken down into three stages:

1. A hands-on introduction to all the techniques you’ll be learning.
2. A step-by-step guide to build the project.
3. Challenges for you to complete on your own, to take the project further.

Each of those are important, so don’t try to rush past any of them.

In the first step I’ll be teaching you each of the individual new components in isolation, so you can understand how they work individually. There will be lots of code, but also some explanation so you can see how everything works just by itself. This step is an _overview_: here are the things we’re going to be using, here is how they work, and here is how you use them.

In the second step we’ll be taking those concepts and applying them in a real project. This is where you’ll see how things work in practice, but you’ll also get more context – here’s _why_ we want to use them, and here’s how they fit together with other components.

In the final step we’ll be summarizing what you learned, and then you’ll be given a short test to make sure you’ve really understood what was covered. You’ll also be given three challenges: three wholly new tasks that you need to complete yourself, to be sure you’re able to apply the skills you’ve learned. We don’t provide solutions for these challenges (so please don’t write an email asking for them!), because they are there to test _you_ rather than following along with a solution.

Anyway, enough chat: it’s time to begin the first project. We’re going to look at the techniques required to build our check-sharing app, then use those in a real project.

So, launch Xcode now, and choose Create A New Xcode Project. You’ll be shown a list of options, and I’d like you to choose iOS and App, then press Next. On the subsequent screen you need to do the following:

- For Product Name please enter “WeSplit”.
- For Organization Identifier you can enter whatever you want, but if you have a website you should enter it with the components reversed: “hackingwithswift.com” would be “com.hackingwithswift”. If you don’t have a domain, make one up – “me.yourlastname.yourfirstname” is perfectly fine.
- For Interface please select SwiftUI.
- For Language please make sure you have Swift selected.
- Make sure all the checkboxes at the bottom are _not_ checked.

In case you were curious about the organization identifier, you should look at the text just below: “Bundle Identifier”. Apple needs to make sure all apps can be identified uniquely, and so it combines the organization identifier – your website domain name in reverse – with the name of the project. So, Apple might have the organization identifier of “com.apple”, so Apple’s Keynote app might have the bundle identifier “com.apple.keynote”.

When you’re ready, click Next, then choose somewhere to save your project and click Create. Xcode will think for a second or two, then create your project and open some code ready for you to edit.

Later on we’re going to be using this project to build our check-splitting app, but for now we’re going to use it as a sandbox where we can try out some code.

Okay, let’s get to it!

:::

### Understanding the basic structure of a SwiftUI app

::: details Understanding the basic structure of a SwiftUI app

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/understanding-the-basic-structure-of-a-swiftui-app)

<YouTube id="u8UOmfYmpoE" />

When you create a new SwiftUI app, you’ll get a selection of files and maybe 20 lines of code in total.

Inside Xcode you should see the following files in the space on the left, which is called the project navigator:

- <FontIcon icon="fas fa-dove"/>`WeSplitApp.swift` contains code for launching your app. If you create something when the app launches and keep it alive the entire time, you’ll put it here.
- <FontIcon icon="fas fa-dove"/>`ContentView.swift` contains the initial user interface (UI) for your program, and is where we’ll be doing all the work in this project.
- <FontIcon icon="iconfont icon-file"/>`Assets.xcassets` is an _asset catalog_ – a collection of pictures that you want to use in your app. You can also add colors here, along with app icons, iMessage stickers, and more.
- `Preview Content` is a group, with Preview `Assets.xcassets` inside – this is another asset catalog, this time specifically for example images you want to use when you’re designing your user interfaces, to give you an idea of how they might look when the program is running.

__Tip__: Depending on Xcode’s configuration, you may or may not see file extensions in your project navigator. You can control this by going to Xcode’s preferences, choosing the General tab, then adjusting the File Extensions option.

All our work for this project will take place in ContentView.swift, which Xcode will already have opened for you. It has some comments at the top – those things marked with two slashes at the start – and they are ignored by Swift, so you can use them to add explanations about how your code works.

Below the comments are ten or so lines of code:

```swift
import SwiftUI

struct ContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, world!")
            .padding()
    }
}

struct ContentView_Previews: PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
        ContentView()
    }
}
```

Before we start writing our own code, it’s worth going over what all that does, because a couple of things will be new.

First, `import SwiftUI` tells Swift that we want to use all the functionality given to us by the SwiftUI framework. Apple provides us with many frameworks for things like machine learning, audio playback, image processing, and more, so rather than assume our program wants to use everything ever we instead say which parts we want to use so they can be loaded.

Second, `struct ContentView: View` creates a new struct called `ContentView`, saying that it conforms to the `View` protocol. `View` comes from SwiftUI, and is the basic protocol that must be adopted by anything you want to draw on the screen – all text, buttons, images, and more are all views, including your own layouts that combine other views.

Third, `var body: some View` defines a new computed property called `body`, which has an interesting type: `some View`. This means it will return something that conforms to the `View` protocol, which is our layout. Behind the scenes this will actually result in a very complicated data type being returned based on all the things in our layout, but `some View` means we don’t need to worry about that.

The `View` protocol has only one requirement, which is that you have a computed property called `body` that returns some `View`. You can (and will) add more properties and methods to your view structs, but `body` is the only thing that’s required.

Fourth, `Text("Hello, world!")` creates a text view using the string “Hello, world!” Text views are simple pieces of static text that get drawn onto the screen, and will automatically wrap across multiple lines as needed.

Fifth, you’ll see the `padding()` method is being called on the text view. This is what Swift calls a _modifier_, which are regular methods with one small difference: they always return a new view that contains both your original data, plus the extra modification you asked for. In our case that means `body` will return a padded text view, not just a regular text view.

Below the `ContentView` struct you’ll see a `ContentView_Previews` struct, which conforms to the `PreviewProvider` protocol. This piece of code won’t actually form part of your final app that goes to the App Store, but is instead specifically for Xcode to use so it can show a preview of your UI design alongside your code.

These previews use an Xcode feature called the canvas, which is usually visible directly to the right of your code. You can customize the preview code if you want, and they will only affect the way the canvas shows your layouts – it won’t change the actual app that gets run.

The canvas will automatically preview using one specific Apple device, such as the iPhone 13 Pro or an iPod touch. To change this, look at the top center of your Xcode window for the current device, then click on it and select an alternative. This will also affect how your code is run in the virtual iOS simulator later on.

__Important__: If you don’t see the canvas in your Xcode window, go to the Editor menu and select Canvas.

Very often you’ll find that an error in your code stops Xcode’s canvas from updating – you’ll see something like “Automatic preview updating paused”, and can press Resume to fix it. As you’ll be doing this a lot, let me recommend an important shortcut: Option+Cmd+P does the same as clicking Resume.

:::

### Creating a form

::: details Creating a form

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/creating-a-form)

<YouTube id="5Fzs1EbteKU" />

Many apps require users to enter some sort of input – it might be asking them to set some preferences, it might be asking them to confirm where they want a car to pick them up, it might be to order food from a menu, or anything similar.

SwiftUI gives us a dedicated view type for this purpose, called Form. `Forms` are scrolling lists of static controls like text and images, but can also include user interactive controls like text fields, toggle switches, buttons, and more.

You can create a basic form just by wrapping the default text view inside `Form`, like this:

```swift
var body: some View {
    Form {
        Text("Hello, world!")
            .padding()
    }
}
```

If you’re using Xcode’s canvas, you’ll see it change quite dramatically: before Hello World was centered on a white screen, but now the screen is a light gray, and Hello World appears in the top left in white.

You can remove the padding too – we’ll come back to that later:

```swift
Form {
    Text("Hello, world!")
}
```

What you’re seeing here is the beginnings of a list of data, just like you’d see in the Settings app. We have one row in our data, which is the Hello World text, but we can add more freely and have them appear in our form immediately:

```swift
Form {
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
}
```

In fact, you can have as many things inside a form as you want, although if you intend to add more than 10 SwiftUI requires that you place things in groups to avoid problems.

For example, this code shows ten rows of text just fine:

```swift
Form {
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
}
```

But this attempts to show 11, which is not allowed:

```swift
Form {
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
    Text("Hello, world!")
}
```

__Tip__: In case you were curious why 10 rows are allowed but 11 is not, this is a limitation in SwiftUI: it was coded to understand how to add one thing to a form, how to add two things to a form, how to add three things, four things, five things, and more, all the way up to 10, but not beyond – they needed to draw a line somewhere. This limit of 10 children inside a parent actually applies everywhere in SwiftUI.

If you wanted to have 11 things inside the form you should put some rows inside a `Group`:

```swift
Form {
    Group {
        Text("Hello, world!")
        Text("Hello, world!")
        Text("Hello, world!")
        Text("Hello, world!")
        Text("Hello, world!")
        Text("Hello, world!")
    }

    Group {
        Text("Hello, world!")
        Text("Hello, world!")
        Text("Hello, world!")
        Text("Hello, world!")
        Text("Hello, world!")
    }
}
```

Groups don’t actually change the way your user interface looks, they just let us work around SwiftUI’s limitation of ten child views inside a parent – that’s text views inside a form, in this instance.

If you _want_ your form to look different when splitting items into chunks, you should use the `Section` view instead. This splits your form into discrete visual groups, just like the Settings app does:

```swift
Form {
    Section {
        Text("Hello, world!")
    }

    Section {
        Text("Hello, world!")
        Text("Hello, world!")
    }
}
```

There’s no hard and fast rule when you should split a form into sections – it’s just there to group related items visually.

:::

### Adding a navigation bar

::: details Adding a navigation bar

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/adding-a-navigation-bar)

<YouTube id="L4nYeaOcHZU" />

If we ask for it, iOS allows us to place content anywhere on the screen, including under the system clock at the top and the home indicator at the bottom. This doesn’t look great, which is why by default SwiftUI ensures components are placed in an area where they can’t be covered up by system UI or device rounded corners – an area known as the _safe area_.

On an iPhone 13, the safe area spans the space from just below the notch down to just above the home indicator. You can see it in action with a user interface like this one:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        Form {
            Section {
                Text("Hello, world!")
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Try running that in the iOS simulator – press the Play button in the top-left corner of Xcode’s window, or press <kbd>Cmd</kbd>+<kbd>R</kbd>.

You’ll see that the form starts below the notch, so by default the row in our form is fully visible. However, forms can also scroll, so if you swipe around in the simulator you’ll find you can move the row up so it goes under the clock, making them both hard to read.

A common way of fixing this is by placing a navigation bar at the top of the screen. Navigation bars can have titles and buttons, and in SwiftUI they also give us the ability to display new views when the user performs an action.

We’ll get to buttons and new views in a later project, but I do at least want to show you how to add a navigation bar and give it a title, because it makes our form look better when it scrolls.

You’ve seen that we can place a text view inside a section by adding `Section` around the text view, and that we can place the section inside a `Form` in a similar way. Well, we add a navigation bar in just the same way, except here it’s called `NavigationView`.

```swift
var body: some View {
    NavigationView {
        Form {
            Section {
                Text("Hello, world!")
            }
        }
    }
}
```

When you see that code in Xcode’s canvas, you’ll notice there’s a large gray space at the top of your UI. Well, that’s our navigation bar in action, and if you run your code in the simulator you’ll see the form slides under the bar as it moves to the top of the screen.

You’ll usually want to put some sort of title in the navigation bar, and you can do that by attaching a _modifier_ to whatever you’ve placed inside.

Let’s try adding a modifier to set the navigation title for our form:

```swift
NavigationView {
    Form {
        Section {
            Text("Hello, world!")
        }
    }
    .navigationTitle("SwiftUI")
}
```

When we attach the `.navigationTitle()` modifier to our form, Swift actually creates a new form that has a navigation title plus all the existing contents you provided.

When you add a title to a navigation bar, you’ll notice it uses a large font for that title. You can get a small font by adding another modifier:

```swift
.navigationBarTitleDisplayMode(.inline)
```

You can see how Apple uses these large and small titles in the Settings app: the first screen says “Settings” in large text, and subsequent screens show their titles in small text.

:::

### Modifying program state

::: details Modifying program state

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/modifying-program-state)

<YouTube id="aNYuDi8C29E" />

There’s a saying among SwiftUI developers that our “views are a function of their state,” but while that’s only a handful of words it might be quite meaningless to you at first.

If you were playing a fighting game, you might have lost a few lives, scored some points, collected some treasure, and perhaps picked up some powerful weapons. In programming, we call these things _state_ – the active collection of settings that describe how the game is right now.

When we say SwiftUI’s views are a function of their state, we mean that the way your user interface looks – the things people can see and what they can interact with – are determined by the state of your program. For example, they can’t tap Continue until they have entered their name in a text field.

Let’s put this into practice with a button, which in SwiftUI can be created with a title string and an action closure that gets run when the button is tapped:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    var tapCount = 0

    var body: some View {
        Button("Tap Count: \(tapCount)") {
            tapCount += 1
        }
    }
}
```

That code looks reasonable enough: create a button that says “Tap Count” plus the number of times the button has been tapped, then add 1 to `tapCount` whenever the button is tapped.

However, it won’t build; that’s not valid Swift code. You see, `ContentView` is a struct, which might be created as a constant. If you think back to when you learned about structs, that means it’s _immutable_ – we can’t change its values freely.

When creating struct methods that want to change properties, we need to add the `mutating` keyword: `mutating func doSomeWork()`, for example. However, Swift doesn’t let us make mutating computed properties, which means we can’t write `mutating var body: some View` – it just isn’t allowed.

This might seem like we’re stuck at an impasse: we want to be able to change values while our program runs, but Swift won’t let us because our views are structs.

Fortunately, Swift gives us a special solution called a _property wrapper_: a special attribute we can place before our properties that effectively gives them super-powers. In the case of storing simple program state like the number of times a button was tapped, we can use a property wrapper from SwiftUI called `@State`, like this:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    @State var tapCount = 0

    var body: some View {
        Button("Tap Count: \(tapCount)") {
            self.tapCount += 1
        }
    }
}
```

That small change is enough to make our program work, so you can now build it and try it out.

`@State` allows us to work around the limitation of structs: we know we can’t change their properties because structs are fixed, but `@State` allows that value to be stored separately by SwiftUI in a place that _can_ be modified.

Yes, it feels a bit like a cheat, and you might wonder why we don’t use classes instead – they _can_ be modified freely. But trust me, it’s worthwhile: as you progress you’ll learn that SwiftUI destroys and recreates your structs frequently, so keeping them small and simple is important for performance.

__Tip__: There are several ways of storing program state in SwiftUI, and you’ll learn all of them. `@State` is specifically designed for simple properties that are stored in one view. As a result, Apple recommends we add `private` access control to those properties, like this: `@State private var tapCount = 0`.

:::

### Binding state to user interface controls

::: details Binding state to user interface controls

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/binding-state-to-user-interface-controls)

<YouTube id="tKLd66yp8hA" />

SwiftUI’s `@State` property wrapper lets us modify our view structs freely, which means as our program changes we can update our view properties to match.

However, things are a little more complex with user interface controls. For example, if you wanted to create an editable text box that users can type into, you might create a SwiftUI view like this one:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        Form {
            TextField("Enter your name")
            Text("Hello, world!")
        }
    }
}
```

That tries to create a form containing a text field and a text view. However, that code won’t compile because SwiftUI wants to know where to store the text in the text field.

Remember, views are a function of their state – that text field can only show something if it reflects a value stored in your program. What SwiftUI wants is a string property in our struct that can be shown inside the text field, and will also store whatever the user types in the text field.

So, we could change the code to this:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    var name = ""

    var body: some View {
        Form {
            TextField("Enter your name", text: name)
            Text("Hello, world!")
        }
    }
}
```

That adds a `name` property, then uses it to create the text field. However, that code _still_ won’t work because Swift needs to be able to update the `name` property to match whatever the user types into the text field, so you might use `@State` like this:

```swift
@State private var name = ""
```

But that still isn’t enough, and our code still won’t compile.

The problem is that Swift differentiates between “show the value of this property here” and “show the value of this property here, _but write any changes back to the property_.”

In the case of our text field, Swift needs to make sure whatever is in the text is also in the `name` property, so that it can fulfill its promise that our views are a function of their state – that everything the user can see is just the visible representation of the structs and properties in our code.

This is what’s called a _two-way binding_: we bind the text field so that it shows the value of our property, but we also bind it so that any changes to the text field also update the property.

In Swift, we mark these two-way bindings with a special symbol so they stand out: we write a dollar sign before them. This tells Swift that it should read the value of the property but also write it back as any changes happen.

So, the correct version of our struct is this:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    @State private var name = ""

    var body: some View {
        Form {
            TextField("Enter your name", text: $name)
            Text("Hello, world!")
        }
    }
}
```

Try running that code now – you should find you can tap on the text field and enter your name, as expected.

Before we move on, let’s modify the text view so that it shows the user’s name directly below their text field:

```swift
Text("Your name is \(name)")
```

Notice how that uses `name` rather than `$name`? That’s because we don’t want a two-way binding here – we want to _read_ the value, yes, but we don’t want to write it back somehow, because that text view won’t change.

So, when you see a dollar sign before a property name, remember that it creates a two-way binding: the value of the property is read, but also written.

:::

### Creating views in a loop

::: details Creating views in a loop

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/creating-views-in-a-loop)

<YouTube id="NEy7itaiFNo" />

It’s common to want to create several SwiftUI views inside a loop. For example, we might want to loop over an array of names and have each one be a text view, or loop over an array of menu items and have each one be shown as an image.

SwiftUI gives us a dedicated view type for this purpose, called `ForEach`. This can loop over arrays and ranges, creating as many views as needed. Even better, `ForEach` doesn’t get hit by the 10-view limit that would affect us if we had typed the views by hand.

`ForEach` will run a closure once for every item it loops over, passing in the current loop item. For example, if we looped from 0 to 100 it would pass in 0, then 1, then 2, and so on.

For example, this creates a form with 100 rows:

```swift
Form {
    ForEach(0..<100) { number in
        Text("Row \(number)")
    }
}
```

Because `ForEach` passes in a closure, we can use shorthand syntax for the parameter name, like this:

```swift
Form {
    ForEach(0 ..< 100) {
        Text("Row \($0)")
    }
}
```

`ForEach` is particularly useful when working with SwiftUI’s `Picker` view, which lets us show various options for users to select from.

To demonstrate this, we’re going to define a view that:

1. Has an array of possible student names.
2. Has an `@State` property storing the currently selected student.
3. Creates a `Picker` view asking users to select their favorite, using a two-way binding to the `@State` property.
4. Uses `ForEach` to loop over all possible student names, turning them into a text view.

Here’s the code for that:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    let students = ["Harry", "Hermione", "Ron"]
    @State private var selectedStudent = "Harry"

    var body: some View {
        NavigationView {
            Form {
                Picker("Select your student", selection: $selectedStudent) {
                    ForEach(students, id: \.self) {
                        Text($0)
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

There’s not a lot of code in there, but it’s worth clarifying a few things:

1. The `students` array doesn’t need to be marked with `@State` because it’s a constant; it isn’t going to change.
2. The `selectedStudent` property starts with the value “Harry” but can change, which is why it’s marked with `@State`.
3. The `Picker` has a label, “Select your student”, which tells users what it does and also provides something descriptive for screen readers to read aloud.
4. The `Picker` has a two-way binding to `selectedStudent`, which means it will start showing a selection of “Harry” but update the property when the user selects something else.
5. Inside the `ForEach` we loop over all the students.
6. For each student we create one text view, showing that student’s name.

The only confusing part in there is this: `ForEach(students, id: \.self)`. That loops over the `students` array so we can create a text view for each one, but the `id: \.self` part is important. This exists because SwiftUI needs to be able to identify every view on the screen uniquely, so it can detect when things change.

For example, if we rearranged our array so that Ron came first, SwiftUI would move its text view at the same time. So, we need to tell SwiftUI how it can identify each item in our string array uniquely – what about each string makes it unique? If we had an array of structs we might say “oh, my struct has a `title` string that is always unique,” or “my struct has an `id` integer that is always unique.” Here, though, we just have an array of simple strings, and the only thing unique about the string is the string itself: each string in our array is different, so the strings are naturally unique.

So, when we’re using `ForEach` to create many views and SwiftUI asks us what identifier makes each item in our string array unique, our answer is `\.self`, which means “the strings themselves are unique.” This does of course mean that if you added duplicate strings to the `students` array you might hit problems, but here it’s just fine.

Anyway, we’ll look at other ways to use `ForEach` in the future, but that’s enough for this project.

This is the final part of the overview for this project, so it’s almost time to get started with the real code. If you want to save the examples you’ve programmed you should copy your project directory somewhere else.

When you’re ready, put ContentView.swift back to the way it started when you first made the project, so we have a clean slate to work from:

```swift
import SwiftUI

struct ContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, world!")
            .padding()
    }
}

struct ContentView_Previews: PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
        ContentView()
    }
}
```

:::


Once you’ve made it through those topics, make sure and post your progress somewhere online – it’s such an easy way to keep yourself motivated and accountable!