---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 22
description: 🕊️100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 22
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift", "swiftui", "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 22
    content: Day 22
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 22
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 22
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift-100-days-of-swiftui/22.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Project 2, part 3

In this project you’ve learned about images, stacks, gradients, buttons, and more, along with a whole host of new modifiers to help bring your UI designs to life.

All of these skills _will_ come in useful in your own SwiftUI apps – not maybe or might, but _will_. As Dr Seuss said, “the more that you read, the more things you will know; the more that you learn, the more places you'll go.” And that’s what this course is about: giving you the ability to go anywhere with SwiftUI, and build whatever apps help you reach your goals.

Before we move on to the next topic, it’s time to pause and review: did you fully understand everything you learned? That means another test, but it also means three more coding challenges to make sure you’re writing your own code as often as possible.

__Today you should work through the wrap up chapter for project 2, complete its review, then work through all three of its challenges.__

### Guess the Flag: Wrap up

::: details Guess the Flag: Wrap up

[📎link](https://www.hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/guess-the-flag-wrap-up)

That’s another SwiftUI app completed, including lots of important new techniques. You’ll use `VStack`, `HStack`, and `ZStack` in almost every project you make, and you’ll find you can quickly build complex layouts by combining them together.

Many people find SwiftUI’s way of showing alerts a little odd at first: creating it, adding a condition, then simply triggering that condition at some point in the future seems like a lot more work than just asking the alert to show itself. But like I said, it’s important that our views always be a reflection of our program state, and that rules out us just showing alerts whenever we want to.

#### Review what you learned

Anyone can sit through a tutorial, but it takes actual work to remember what was taught. It’s my job to make sure you take as much from these tutorials as possible, so I’ve prepared a short review to help you check your learning.

[Click here to review what you learned in this project.][guess-the-flag]

#### Challenge

One of the best ways to learn is to write your own code as often as possible, so here are three ways you should try extending this app to make sure you fully understand what’s going on:

1. Add an `@State` property to store the user’s score, modify it when they get an answer right or wrong, then display it in the alert and in the score label.
2. When someone chooses the wrong flag, tell them their mistake in your alert message – something like “Wrong! That’s the flag of France,” for example.
3. Make the game show only 8 questions, at which point they see a final alert judging their score and can restart the game.


__Note__: That last one takes a little more thinking than the others. A good place to start would be to add a second `alert()` modifier watching a different Boolean property, then connect its button to a `reset()` method to set the game back to its initial state.

:::

::: info Guess the Flag: Wrap up - Additional

[Review for Project 2: Guess the Flag][guess-the-flag]

:::

Once you’re done, tell other people: you’ve completed your second SwiftUI project, you’ve passed the test, and you’ve even extended it with your own code.

You should be proud of what you’ve accomplished – good job!

[guess-the-flag]: https://www.hackingwithswift.com/review/ios-swiftui/guess-the-flag