---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 33
description: 🕊️100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 33
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift", "swiftui", "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 33
    content: Day 33
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 33
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 33
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift-100-days-of-swiftui/33.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Project 6, part 2

Today we’re going to be getting into more advanced animations, and it’s where you’ll start to get a deeper understanding of how animations work and how you can customize them to a remarkable degree.

There’s a famous industrial designer from Germany called Dieter Rams. You might not have heard of him, but you’ve certainly seen his work – his designs have _hugely_ inspired Apple’s own designs for years, from the iPod to the iMac and the Mac Pro. He once said, “good design is making something intelligible and memorable; great design is making something memorable and meaningful.”

SwiftUI’s powerful animations system lets us create memorable animations easily enough, but the _meaningful_ part is up to you – does your animation merely look good, or does it convey extra information to the user?

That’s not to say animations can’t just look good; there’s always some room for whimsy in app development. But when important changes are happening, it’s important we try to help user understand what’s changing and why. In SwiftUI, this is largely the job of _transitions_, which you’ll meet today.

__Today you have four topics to work through, in which you’ll learn about multiple animations, gesture animations, transitions, and more.__

### Controlling the animation stack

::: details  Controlling the animation stack

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/controlling-the-animation-stack)

<YouTube id="laVLtkWjybM"/>

At this point, I want to put together two things that you already understand individually, but together might hurt your head a little.

Previously we looked at how the order of modifiers matters. So, if we wrote code like this:

```swift
Button("Tap Me") {
    // do nothing
}
.background(.blue)
.frame(width: 200, height: 200)
.foregroundColor(.white)
```

The result would look different from code like this:

```swift
Button("Tap Me") {
    // do nothing
}
.frame(width: 200, height: 200)    
.background(.blue)
.foregroundColor(.white)
```

This is because if we color the background before adjusting the frame, only the original space is colored rather than the expanded space. If you recall, the underlying reason for this is the way SwiftUI wraps views with modifiers, allowing us to apply the same modifier multiple times – we repeated `background()` and `padding()` several times to create a striped border effect.

That’s concept one: modifier order matters, because SwiftUI wraps views with modifiers in the order they are applied.

Concept two is that we can apply an `animation()` modifier to a view in order to have it implicitly animate changes.

To demonstrate this, we could modify our button code so that it shows different colors depending on some state. First, we define the state:

```swift
@State private var enabled = false
```

We can toggle that between true and false inside our button’s action:

```swift
enabled.toggle()
```

Then we can use a conditional value inside the `background()` modifier so the button is either blue or red:

```swift
.background(enabled ? .blue : .red)
```

Finally, we add the `animation()` modifier to the button to make those changes animate:

```swift
.animation(.default, value: enabled)
```

If you run the code you’ll see that tapping the button animates its color between blue and red.

So: order modifier matters and we can attach one modifier several times to a view, and we can cause implicit animations to occur with the `animation()` modifier. All clear so far?

Right. Brace yourself, because this might hurt.

__You can attach the `animation()` modifier several times, and the order in which you use it matters.__

To demonstrate this, I’d like you to add this modifier to your button, after all the other modifiers:

```swift
.clipShape(RoundedRectangle(cornerRadius: enabled ? 60 : 0))
```

That will cause the button to move between a square and a rounded rectangle depending on the state of the `enabled` Boolean.

When you run the program, you’ll see that tapping the button causes it to animate between red and blue, but _jump_ between square and rounded rectangle – that part _doesn’t_ animate.

Hopefully you can see where we’re going next: I’d like you to move the `clipShape()` modifier before the animation, like this:

```swift
.frame(width: 200, height: 200)
.background(enabled ? .blue : .red)
.foregroundColor(.white)
.clipShape(RoundedRectangle(cornerRadius: enabled ? 60 : 0))
.animation(.default, value: enabled)
```

And now when you run the code both the background color and clip shape animate.

So, the order in which we apply animations matters: only changes that occur _before_ the `animation()` modifier get animated.

Now for the fun part: if we apply multiple `animation()` modifiers, each one controls everything before it up to the next animation. This allows us to animate state changes in all sorts of different ways rather than uniformly for all properties.

For example, we could make the color change happen with the default animation, but use an interpolating spring for the clip shape:

```swift
Button("Tap Me") {
    enabled.toggle()
}
.frame(width: 200, height: 200)
.background(enabled ? .blue : .red)
.animation(.default, value: enabled)
.foregroundColor(.white)
.clipShape(RoundedRectangle(cornerRadius: enabled ? 60 : 0))
.animation(.interpolatingSpring(stiffness: 10, damping: 1), value: enabled)
```

You can have as many animat`ion()` modifiers as you need to construct your design, which lets us split one state change into as many segments as we need.

For even more control, it’s possible to disable animations entirely by passing `nil` to the modifier. For example, you might want the color change to happen immediately but the clip shape to retain its animation, in which case you’d write this:

```swift
Button("Tap Me") {
    enabled.toggle()
}
.frame(width: 200, height: 200)
.background(enabled ? .blue : .red)
.animation(nil, value: enabled)
.foregroundColor(.white)
.clipShape(RoundedRectangle(cornerRadius: enabled ? 60 : 0))
.animation(.interpolatingSpring(stiffness: 10, damping: 1), value: enabled)
```

That kind of control wouldn’t be possible without multiple `animation()` modifiers – if you tried to move `background()` after the animation you’d find that it would just undo the work of `clipShape()`.

:::

### Animating gestures

::: details  Animating gestures

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/animating-gestures)

<YouTube id="OtOUi60oeyg"/>

SwiftUI lets us attach gestures to any views, and the effects of those gestures can also be animated. We get a range of gestures to work with, such as tap gestures to let any view respond to taps, drag gestures that respond to us dragging a finger over a view, and more.

We’ll be looking at gestures in more detail later on, but for now let’s try something relatively simple: a card that we can drag around the screen, but when we let go it snaps back into its original location.

First, our initial layout:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        LinearGradient(gradient: Gradient(colors: [.yellow, .red]), startPoint: .topLeading, endPoint: .bottomTrailing)
            .frame(width: 300, height: 200)
            .clipShape(RoundedRectangle(cornerRadius: 10))
    }
}
```

That draws a card-like view in the center of the screen. We want to move that around the screen based on the location of our finger, and that requires three steps.

First, we need some state to store the amount of their drag:

```swift
@State private var dragAmount = CGSize.zero
```

Second, we want to use that size to influence the card’s position on-screen. SwiftUI gives us a dedicated modifier for this called `offset()`, which lets us adjust the X and Y coordinate of a view without moving other views around it. You can pass in discrete X and Y coordinates if you want to, but – by no mere coincidence – `offset()` can also take a `CGSize` directly.

So, step two is to add this modifier to the card gradient:

```swift
.offset(dragAmount)
```

Now comes the important part: we can create a `DragGesture` and attach it to the card. Drag gestures have two extra modifiers that are useful to us here: `onChanged()` lets us run a closure whenever the user moves their finger, and `onEnded()` lets us run a closure when the user lifts their finger off the screen, ending the drag.

Both of those closures are given a single parameter, which describes the drag operation – where it started, where it is currently, how far it moved, and so on. For our `onChanged()` modifier we’re going to read the _translation_ of the drag, which tells us how far it’s moved from the start point – we can assign that directly to `dragAmount` so that our view moves along with the gesture. For `onEnded()` we’re going to ignore the input entirely, because we’ll be setting `dragAmount` back to zero.

So, add this modifier to the linear gradient now:

```swift
.gesture(
    DragGesture()
        .onChanged { dragAmount = $0.translation }
        .onEnded { _ in dragAmount = .zero }
)
```

If you run the code you’ll see you can now drag the gradient card around, and when you release the drag it will jump back to the center. The card has its offset determined by `dragAmount`, which in turn is being set by the drag gesture.

Now that everything works we can bring that movement to life with some animation, and we have two options: add an implicit animation that will animate the drag _and_ the release, or add an explicit animation to animate just the release.

To see the former in action, add this modifier to the linear gradient:

```swift
.animation(.spring(), value: dragAmount)
```

As you drag around, the card will move to the drag location with a slight delay because of the spring animation, but it will also gently overshoot if you make sudden movements.

To see _explicit_ animations in action, remove that `animation()` modifier and change your existing `onEnded()` drag gesture code to this:

```swift
.onEnded { _ in
    withAnimation(.spring()) {
        dragAmount = .zero
    }
}
```

Now the card will follow your drag immediately (because that’s not being animated), but when you release it _will_ animate.

If we combine offset animations with drag gestures and a little delay, we can create remarkably fun animations without a lot of code.

To demonstrate this, we could write the text “Hello SwiftUI” as a series of individual letters, each one with a background color and offset that is controlled by some state. Strings are just slightly fancy arrays of characters, so we can get a _real_ array from a string like this: `Array("Hello SwiftUI")`.

Anyway, try this out and see what you think:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    let letters = Array("Hello SwiftUI")
    @State private var enabled = false
    @State private var dragAmount = CGSize.zero

    var body: some View {
        HStack(spacing: 0) {
            ForEach(0..<letters.count, id: \.self) { num in
                Text(String(letters[num]))
                    .padding(5)
                    .font(.title)
                    .background(enabled ? .blue : .red)
                    .offset(dragAmount)
                    .animation(.default.delay(Double(num) / 20), value: dragAmount)
            }
        }
        .gesture(
            DragGesture()
                .onChanged { dragAmount = $0.translation }
                .onEnded { _ in
                    dragAmount = .zero
                    enabled.toggle()
                }
        )
    }
}
```

If you run that code you’ll see that any letter can be dragged around to have the whole string follow suit, with a brief delay causing a snake-like effect. SwiftUI will also add in color changing as you release the drag, animating between blue and red even as the letters move back to the center.

:::

### Showing and hiding views with transitions

::: details Showing and hiding views with transitions

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/showing-and-hiding-views-with-transitions)

<YouTube id="jySfyxQGMFg"/>

One of the most powerful features of SwiftUI is the ability to customize the way views are shown and hidden. Previously you’ve seen how we can use regular `if` conditions to include views conditionally, which means when that condition changes we can insert or remove views from our view hierarchy.

Transitions control how this insertion and removal takes place, and we can work with the built-in transitions, combine them in different ways, or even create wholly custom transitions.

To demonstrate this, here’s a `VStack` with a button and a rectangle:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            Button("Tap Me") {
                // do nothing
            }

            Rectangle()
                .fill(.red)
                .frame(width: 200, height: 200)
        }
    }
}
```

We can make the rectangle appear only when a certain condition is satisfied. First, we add some state we can manipulate:

```swift
@State private var isShowingRed = false
```

Next we use that state as a condition for showing our rectangle:

```swift
if isShowingRed {
    Rectangle()
        .fill(.red)
        .frame(width: 200, height: 200)
}
```

Finally we can toggle `isShowingRed` between true and false in the button’s action:

```swift
isShowingRed.toggle()
```

If you run the program, you’ll see that pressing the button shows and hides the red square. There’s no animation; it just appears and disappears abruptly.

We can get SwiftUI’s default view transition by wrapping the state change using `withAnimation()`, like this:

```swift
withAnimation {
    isShowingRed.toggle()
}
```

With that small change, the app now fades the red rectangle in and out, while also moving the button up to make space. It looks OK, but we can do better with the `transition()` modifier.

For example, we could have the rectangle scale up and down as it is shown just by adding the `transition()` modifier to it:

```swift
Rectangle()
    .fill(.red)
    .frame(width: 200, height: 200)
    .transition(.scale)
```

Now tapping the button looks much better: the rectangle scales up as the button makes space, then scales down when tapped again.

There are a handful of other transitions you can try if you want to experiment. A useful one is `.asymmetric`, which lets us use one transition when the view is being shown and another when it’s disappearing. To try it out, replace the rectangle’s existing transition with this:

```swift
.transition(.asymmetric(insertion: .scale, removal: .opacity))
```

:::

### Building custom transitions using ViewModifier

::: details Building custom transitions using ViewModifier

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/building-custom-transitions-using-viewmodifier)

<YouTube id="ktb5PP_Ruws"/>

It’s possible – and actually surprisingly easy – to create wholly new transitions for SwiftUI, allowing us to add and remove views using entirely custom animations.

This functionality is made possible by the `.modifier` transition, which accepts any view modifier we want. The catch is that we need to be able to instantiate the modifier, which means it needs to be one we create ourselves.

To try this out, we could write a view modifier that lets us mimic the Pivot animation in Keynote – it causes a new slide to rotate in from its top-left corner. In SwiftUI-speak, that means creating a view modifier that causes our view to rotate in from one corner, without escaping the bounds it’s supposed to be in. SwiftUI actually gives us modifiers to do just that: `rotationEffect()` lets us rotate a view in 2D space, and `clipped()` stops the view from being drawn outside of its rectangular space.

`rotationEffect()` is similar to `rotation3DEffect()`, except it always rotates around the Z axis. However, it also gives us the ability to control the _anchor point_ of the rotation – which part of the view should be fixed in place as the center of the rotation. SwiftUI gives us a `UnitPoint` type for controlling the anchor, which lets us specify an exact X/Y point for the rotation or use one of the many built-in options – `.topLeading`, `.bottomTrailing`, `.center`, and so on.

Let’s put all this into code by creating a `CornerRotateModifier` struct that has an anchor point to control where the rotation should take place, and an amount to control how much rotation should be applied:

```swift
struct CornerRotateModifier: ViewModifier {
    let amount: Double
    let anchor: UnitPoint

    func body(content: Content) -> some View {
        content
            .rotationEffect(.degrees(amount), anchor: anchor)
            .clipped()
    }
}
```

The addition of `clipped()` there means that when the view rotates the parts that are lying outside its natural rectangle don’t get drawn.

We can try that straight away using the `.modifier` transition, but it’s a little unwieldy. A _better_ idea is to wrap that in an extension to `AnyTransition`, making it rotate from -90 to 0 on its top leading corner:

```swift
extension AnyTransition {
    static var pivot: AnyTransition {
        .modifier(
            active: CornerRotateModifier(amount: -90, anchor: .topLeading),
            identity: CornerRotateModifier(amount: 0, anchor: .topLeading)
        )
    }
}
```

With that in place we now attach the pivot animation to any view using this:

```swift
.transition(.pivot)
```

For example, we could use the `onTapGesture()` modifier to make a red rectangle pivot onto the screen, like this:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    @State private var isShowingRed = false

    var body: some View {
        ZStack {
            Rectangle()
                .fill(.blue)
                .frame(width: 200, height: 200)

            if isShowingRed {
                Rectangle()
                    .fill(.red)
                    .frame(width: 200, height: 200)
                    .transition(.pivot)
            }
        }
        .onTapGesture {
            withAnimation {
                isShowingRed.toggle()
            }
        }
    }
}
```

:::
