---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 44
description: 🕊️100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 44
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift", "swiftui", "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 44
    content: Day 44
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 44
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 44
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift-100-days-of-swiftui/44.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Project 9, part 2

Today we’re going to be continuing our look at SwiftUI’s drawing systems by getting a little creative – I think you’ll be surprised how easy it is to make something entrancing just by combining most of what you know with a couple of new techniques.

Today you’re also going to meet the `drawingGroup()` modifier, which lets us combine view rendering together into a single pass powered by Apple’s high-performance graphics API, Metal. Lots of people have asked me in the past whether I plan to write a book on Metal, and the answer is a definitive _no_ – not only is there [a very good one already](https://www.amazon.com/Metal-Programming-Guide-Tutorial-Reference/dp/0134668944), but it’s also remarkably hard to get anything good out of the APIs.

That isn’t because Metal is bad – trust me, it’s incredible! – but instead because Apple’s finest engineers have worked hard to make SwiftUI as efficient as possible when working with Metal, and, bluntly, it is extremely unlikely that I can do a better job.

As you’ll find, switching Metal isn’t something you’ll need often, even though it is easy to do. Famous software developer Kent Beck once said our process should be “make it work, make it right, make it fast”, and he’s quite correct. But if you find your drawing works fast _without_ switching to Metal it’s usually best left as-is.

Anyway, enough chat – I said we’d make something entrancing, so let’s get to it!

__Today you have three topics to work through, in which you’ll learn about `CGAffineTransform`, `ImagePaint`, `drawingGroup()`, and more.__

### Transforming shapes using `CGAffineTransform` and even-odd fills

::: details Transforming shapes using CGAffineTransform and even-odd fills

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/transforming-shapes-using-cgaffinetransform-and-even-odd-fills)

<YouTube id="sQ89JRq0kvg" />

When you move beyond simple shapes and paths, two useful features of SwiftUI come together to create some beautiful effects with remarkably little work. The first is `CGAffineTransform`, which describes how a path or view should be rotated, scaled, or sheared; and the second is even-odd fills, which allow us to control how overlapping shapes should be rendered.

To demonstrate both of these, we’re going to create a flower shape out of several rotated ellipse petals, with each ellipse positioned around a circle. The mathematics behind this is relatively straightforward, with one catch: `CGAffineTransform` measures angles in radians rather than degrees. If it’s been a while since you were at school, the least you need to know is this: 3.141 radians is equal to 180 degrees, so 3.141 radians multiplied by 2 is equal to 360 degrees. And the 3.141 isn’t a coincidence: the actual value is the mathematical constant pi.

So, what we’re going to do is as follows:

- Create a new empty path.
- Count from 0 up to pi multiplied by 2 (360 degrees in radians), counting in one eighth of pi each time – this will give us 16 petals.
- Create a rotation transform equal to the current number.
- Add to that rotation a movement equal to half the width and height of our draw space, so each petal is centered in our shape.
- Create a _new_ path for a petal, equal to an ellipse of a specific size.
- Apply our transform to that ellipse so it’s moved into position.
- Add that petal’s path to our main path.

This will make more sense once you see the code running, but first I want to add three more small things:

1. Rotating something then moving it does not produce the same result as moving then rotating, because when you rotate it first the direction it moves will be different from if it were not rotated.
2. To really help you understand what’s going on, we’ll be making our petal ellipses use a couple of properties we can pass in externally.
3. Ranges such as `1...5` are great if you want to count through numbers one at a time, but if you want to count in 2s, or in our case count in “pi/8”s, you should use `stride(from:to:by:)` instead.

Alright, enough talk – add this shape to your project now:

```swift
struct Flower: Shape {
    // How much to move this petal away from the center
    var petalOffset: Double = -20

    // How wide to make each petal
    var petalWidth: Double = 100

    func path(in rect: CGRect) -> Path {
        // The path that will hold all petals
        var path = Path()

        // Count from 0 up to pi * 2, moving up pi / 8 each time
        for number in stride(from: 0, to: Double.pi * 2, by: Double.pi / 8) {
            // rotate the petal by the current value of our loop
            let rotation = CGAffineTransform(rotationAngle: number)

            // move the petal to be at the center of our view 
            let position = rotation.concatenating(CGAffineTransform(translationX: rect.width / 2, y: rect.height / 2))

            // create a path for this petal using our properties plus a fixed Y and height
            let originalPetal = Path(ellipseIn: CGRect(x: petalOffset, y: 0, width: petalWidth, height: rect.width / 2))

            // apply our rotation/position transformation to the petal
            let rotatedPetal = originalPetal.applying(position)

            // add it to our main path
            path.addPath(rotatedPetal)
        }

        // now send the main path back
        return path
    }
}
```

I realize that’s quite a lot of code, but hopefully it will become clearer when you try it out. Modify your ContentView to this:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    @State private var petalOffset = -20.0
    @State private var petalWidth = 100.0

    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            Flower(petalOffset: petalOffset, petalWidth: petalWidth)
                .stroke(.red, lineWidth: 1)

            Text("Offset")
            Slider(value: $petalOffset, in: -40...40)
                .padding([.horizontal, .bottom])

            Text("Width")
            Slider(value: $petalWidth, in: 0...100)
                .padding(.horizontal)
        }
    }
}
```

Now try that out. You should be able to see exactly how the code works once you start dragging the offset and width sliders around – it’s just a series of rotated ellipses, placed in a circular formation.

That in itself is interesting, but with one small change we can go from _interesting_ to _sublime_. If you look at the way our ellipses are being drawn, they overlap frequently – sometimes one ellipse is drawn over another, and sometimes over several others.

If we fill our path using a solid color, we get a fairly unimpressive result. Try it like this:

```swift
Flower(petalOffset: petalOffset, petalWidth: petalWidth)
    .fill(.red)
```

But as an alternative, we can fill the shape using the even-odd rule, which decides whether part of a path should be colored depending on the overlaps it contains. It works like this:

- If a path has no overlaps it will be filled.
- If another path overlaps it, the overlapping part won’t be filled.
- If a third path overlaps the previous two, then it _will_ be filled.
- …and so on.

Only the parts that actually overlap are affected by this rule, and it creates some remarkably beautiful results. Even better, Swift UI makes it trivial to use, because whenever we call `fill()` on a shape we can pass a `FillStyle` struct that asks for the even-odd rule to be enabled.

Try it out with this:

```swift
Flower(petalOffset: petalOffset, petalWidth: petalWidth)
    .fill(.red, style: FillStyle(eoFill: true))
```

Now run the program and play – honestly, given how little work we’ve done the results are quite entrancing!

:::


### Creative borders and fills using `ImagePaint`

::: details Creative borders and fills using ImagePaint

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/creative-borders-and-fills-using-imagepaint)

<YouTube id="23rvgRZVvLM" />

SwiftUI relies heavily on protocols, which can be a bit confusing when working with drawing. For example, we can use `Color` as a view, but it also conforms to `ShapeStyle` – a different protocol used for fills, strokes, and borders.

In practice, this means we can modify the default text view so that it has a red background:

```swift
Text("Hello World")
    .frame(width: 300, height: 300)
    .background(.red)
Or a red border:

Text("Hello World")
    .frame(width: 300, height: 300)
    .border(.red, width: 30)
```

In contrast, we can use an image for the background:

```swift
Text("Hello World")
    .frame(width: 300, height: 300)
    .background(Image("Example"))
```

But using the same image as a border won’t work:

```swift
Text("Hello World")
    .frame(width: 300, height: 300)
    .border(Image("Example"), width: 30)
```

This makes sense if you think about it – unless the image is the exact right size, you have very little control over how it should look.

To resolve this, SwiftUI gives us a dedicated type that wraps images in a way that we have complete control over how they should be rendered, which in turn means we can use them for borders and fills without problem.

The type is called `ImagePaint`, and it’s created using one to three parameters. At the very least you need to give it an `Image` to work with as its first parameter, but you can also provide a rectangle within that image to use as the source of your drawing specified in the range of 0 to 1 (the second parameter), and a scale for that image (the third parameter). Those second and third parameters have sensible default values of “the whole image” and “100% scale”, so you can sometimes ignore them.

As an example, we could render an example image using a scale of 0.2, which means it’s shown at 1/5th the normal size:

```swift
Text("Hello World")
    .frame(width: 300, height: 300)
    .border(ImagePaint(image: Image("Example"), scale: 0.2), width: 30)
```

If you want to try using the `sourceRect` parameter, make sure you pass in a `CGRect` of relative sizes and positions: 0 means “start” and 1 means “end”. For example, this will show the entire width of our example image, but only the middle half:

```swift
Text("Hello World")
    .frame(width: 300, height: 300)
    .border(ImagePaint(image: Image("Example"), sourceRect: CGRect(x: 0, y: 0.25, width: 1, height: 0.5), scale: 0.1), width: 30)
```

It’s worth adding that `ImagePaint` can be used for view backgrounds and also shape strokes. For example, we could create a capsule with our example image tiled as its stroke:

```swift
Capsule()
    .strokeBorder(ImagePaint(image: Image("Example"), scale: 0.1), lineWidth: 20)
    .frame(width: 300, height: 200)
```

`ImagePaint` will automatically keep tiling its image until it has filled its area – it can work with backgrounds, strokes, borders, and fills of any size.


:::


### Enabling high-performance Metal rendering with `drawingGroup()`

::: details Enabling high-performance Metal rendering with drawingGroup()

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/enabling-high-performance-metal-rendering-with-drawinggroup)

<YouTube id="OFf5ZEd3Yzw" />

SwiftUI uses Core Animation for its rendering by default, which offers great performance out of the box. However, for complex rendering you might find your code starts to slow down – anything below 60 frames per second (FPS) is a problem, but really you ought to aim higher because many iOS devices now render at 120fps.

To demonstrate this, let’s look at some example code. We’re going to create a color-cycling view that renders concentric circles in a range of colors. The result will look like a radial gradient, but we’re going to add two properties to make it more customizable: one to control how many circles should be drawn, and one to control the color cycle – it will be able to move the gradient start and end colors around.

We can get a color cycling effect by using the `Color(hue:saturation:brightness:)` initializer: hue is a value from 0 to 1 controlling the kind of color we see – red is both 0 and 1, with all other hues in between. To figure out the hue for a particular circle we can take our circle number (e.g. 25), divide that by how many circles there are (e.g. 100), then add our color cycle amount (e.g. 0.5). So, if we were circle 25 of 100 with a cycle amount of 0.5, our hue would be 0.75.

One small complexity here is that hues don’t automatically wrap after we reach 1.0, which means a hue of 1.0 is equal to a hue of 0.0, but a hue of 1.2 is _not_ equal to a hue of 0.2. As a result, we’re going to wrap the hue by hand: if it’s over 1.0 we’ll subtract 1.0, to make sure it always lies in the range of 0.0 to 1.0.

Here’s the code:

```swift
struct ColorCyclingCircle: View {
    var amount = 0.0
    var steps = 100

    var body: some View {
        ZStack {
            ForEach(0..<steps) { value in
                Circle()
                    .inset(by: Double(value))
                    .strokeBorder(color(for: value, brightness: 1), lineWidth: 2)
            }
        }
    }

    func color(for value: Int, brightness: Double) -> Color {
        var targetHue = Double(value) / Double(steps) + amount

        if targetHue > 1 {
            targetHue -= 1
        }

        return Color(hue: targetHue, saturation: 1, brightness: brightness)
    }
}
```

We can now use that in a layout, binding its color cycle to a local property controlled by a slider:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    @State private var colorCycle = 0.0

    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            ColorCyclingCircle(amount: colorCycle)
                .frame(width: 300, height: 300)

            Slider(value: $colorCycle)
        }
    }
}
```

If you run the app you’ll see we have a neat color wave effect controlled entirely by dragging around the slider, and it works really smoothly.

What you’re seeing right now is powered by Core Animation, which means it will turn our 100 circles into 100 individual views being drawn onto the screen. This is computationally expensive, but as you can see it works well enough – we get smooth performance.

However, if we increase the complexity a little we’ll find things aren’t quite so rosy. Replace the existing `strokeBorder()` modifier with this one:

```swift
.strokeBorder(
    LinearGradient(
        gradient: Gradient(colors: [
            color(for: value, brightness: 1),
            color(for: value, brightness: 0.5)
        ]), 
        startPoint: .top,
        endPoint: .bottom
    ), 
    lineWidth: 2
)
```

That now renders a gentle gradient, showing bright colors at the top of the circle down to darker colors at the bottom. And _now_ when you run the app you’ll find it runs much slower – SwiftUI is struggling to render 100 gradients as part of 100 separate views.

We can fix this by applying one new modifier, called `drawingGroup()`. This tells SwiftUI it should render the contents of the view into an off-screen image before putting it back onto the screen as a single rendered output, which is significantly faster. Behind the scenes this is powered by Metal, which is Apple’s framework for working directly with the GPU for extremely fast graphics.

So, modify the `ColorCyclingCircle` body to this:

```swift
var body: some View {
    ZStack {
        // existing code…
    }
    .drawingGroup()
}
```

Now run it again – with that one tiny addition you’ll now find we get everything rendered correctly and we’re also back at full speed even with the gradients.

Important: The `drawingGroup()` modifier is helpful to know about and to keep in your arsenal as a way to solve performance problems when you hit them, but you should not _use_ it that often. Adding the off-screen render pass might slow down SwiftUI for simple drawing, so you should wait until you have an actual performance problem before trying to bring in `drawingGroup()`.

:::

