---
lang: ko-KR
title: Day 8
description: 🕊️100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 8
tags: ["crashcourse", "swift", "swiftui", "paul-hudson" , "xcode", "appstore"]
meta:
  - name: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 8
    content: Day 8
  - property: og:title
    content: Day 8
  - property: og:description
    content: 100 Days of SwiftUI > Day 8
  - property: og:url
    content: https://chanhi2000.github.io/crashcourse/swift-100-days-of-swiftui/8.html
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }} 관련

> {{ $frontmatter.description }}

[[toc]]

---

## Functions, part 2

Today you’re going to learn about handling errors in functions. That might sound awfully pessimistic, but as John Lennon said “life is what happens when you’re busy making other plans” – no one _wants_ problems, but life has a habit of finding them anyway!

Fortunately, Swift makes error handling straightforward and somewhat foolproof: it _requires_ that we handle errors, or at least acknowledge that they might happen. If you don’t at least attempt to handle errors well, your code simply won’t compile.

__Today you have two tutorials to work through,__ in which you’ll meet default values for parameters and throwing functions, and then we’ll summarize functions and look at checkpoint 4. Once you’ve completed each video, there is a short piece of optional extra reading if you’re looking to get some more details, and there’s also a short test to help make sure you’ve understood what was taught.


### 1. How to provide default values for parameters

::: details 1. How to provide default values for parameters

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/beginners/how-to-provide-default-values-for-parameters)

<YouTube id="9UhzqjZO_tw" />

Adding parameters to functions lets us add customization points, so that functions can operate on different data depending on our needs. Sometimes we want to make these customization points available to keep our code flexible, but other times you don’t want to think about it – you want the same thing nine times out of ten.

For example, previously we looked at this function:

```swift
func printTimesTables(for number: Int, end: Int) {
    for i in 1...end {
        print("\(i) x \(number) is \(i * number)")
    }
}

printTimesTables(for: 5, end: 20)
```

That prints any times table, starting at 1 times the number up to any end point. That number is always going to change based on what multiplication table we want, but the end point seems like a great place to provide a sensible default – we might want to count up to 10 or 12 most of the time, while still leaving open the possibility of going to a different value some of the time.

To solve this problem, Swift lets us specify default values for any or all of our parameters. In this case, we could set `end` to have the default value of 12, meaning that if we don’t specify it 12 will be used automatically.

Here’s how that looks in code:

```swift
func printTimesTables(for number: Int, end: Int = 12) {
    for i in 1...end {
        print("\(i) x \(number) is \(i * number)")
    }
}

printTimesTables(for: 5, end: 20)
printTimesTables(for: 8)
```

Notice how we can now call `printTimesTables()` in two different ways: we can provide both parameters for times when we want it, but if we don’t – if we just write `printTimesTables(for: 8)` – then the default value of 12 will be used for `end`.

We’ve actually seen a default parameter in action, back in some code we used before:

```swift
var characters = ["Lana", "Pam", "Ray", "Sterling"]
print(characters.count)
characters.removeAll()
print(characters.count)
```

That adds some strings to an array, prints its count, then removes them all and prints the count again.

As a performance optimization, Swift gives arrays just enough memory to hold their items plus a little extra so they can grow a little over time. If more items are added to the array, Swift allocates more and more memory automatically, so that as little as possible is wasted.

When we call `removeAll()`, Swift will automatically remove all the items in the array, then free up all the memory that was assigned to the array. That’s usually what you’ll want, because after all you’re removing the objects for a reason. But sometimes – just sometimes – you might be about to add lots of new items back into the array, and so there’s a second form of this function that removes the items while also keeping the previous capacity:

```swift
characters.removeAll(keepingCapacity: true)
```

This is accomplished using a default parameter value: `keepingCapacity` is a Boolean with the default value of false so that it does the sensible thing by default, while also leaving open the option of us passing in `true` for times we want to keep the array’s existing capacity.

As you can see, default parameter values let us keep flexibility in our functions without making them annoying to call most of the time – you only need to send in some parameters when you need something unusual.

:::

::: info 1. How to provide default values for parameters

- Optional: [When to use default parameters for functions][when-to-use-default-parameters-for-functions]
- Test: [Default parameters][test-default-parameters]

:::

### 2. How to handle errors in functions

::: details 2. How to handle errors in functions

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/beginners/how-to-handle-errors-in-functions)

<YouTube id="T-UTLMKx2wc" />

Things go wrong all the time, such as when that file you wanted to read doesn’t exist, or when that data you tried to download failed because the network was down. If we didn’t handle errors gracefully then our code would crash, so Swift makes us handle errors – or at least acknowledge when they might happen.

This takes three steps:

1. Telling Swift about the possible errors that can happen.
2. Writing a function that can flag up errors if they happen.
3. Calling that function, and handling any errors that might happen.

Let’s work through a complete example: if the user asks us to check how strong their password is, we’ll flag up a serious error if the password is too short or is obvious.

So, we need to start by defining the possible errors that might happen. This means making a new enum that builds on Swift’s existing `Error` type, like this:

```swift
enum PasswordError: Error {
    case short, obvious
}
```

That says there are two possible errors with password: `short` and `obvious`. It doesn’t define what those _mean_, only that they exist.

Step two is to write a function that will trigger one of those errors. When an error is triggered – or _thrown_ in Swift – we’re saying something fatal went wrong with the function, and instead of continuing as normal it immediately terminates without sending back any value.

In our case, we’re going to write a function that checks the strength of a password: if it’s really bad – fewer than 5 characters or is extremely well known – then we’ll throw an error immediately, but for all other strings we’ll return either “OK”, “Good”, or “Excellent” ratings.

Here’s how that looks in Swift:

```swift
func checkPassword(_ password: String) throws -> String {
    if password.count < 5 {
        throw PasswordError.short
    }

    if password == "12345" {
        throw PasswordError.obvious
    }

    if password.count < 8 {
        return "OK"
    } else if password.count < 10 {
        return "Good"
    } else {
        return "Excellent"
    }
}
```

Let’s break that down…

1. If a function is able to throw errors without handling them itself, you must mark the function as `throws` before the return type.
2. We don’t specify exactly what kind of error is thrown by the function, just that it can throw errors.
3. Being marked with `throws` does not mean the function _must_ throw errors, only that it might.
4. When it comes time to throw an error, we write `throw` followed by one of our `PasswordError` cases. This immediately exits the function, meaning that it won’t return a string.
5. If no errors are thrown, the function must behave like normal – it needs to return a string.

That completes the second step of throwing errors: we defined the errors that might happen, then wrote a function using those errors.

The final step is to run the function and handle any errors that might happen. Swift Playgrounds are pretty lax about error handling because they are mostly meant for learning, but when it comes to working with real Swift projects you’ll find there are three steps:

1. Starting a block of work that might throw errors, using `do`.
2. Calling one or more throwing functions, using `try`.
3. Handling any thrown errors using `catch`.

In pseudocode, it looks like this:

```swift
do {
    try someRiskyWork()
} catch {
    print("Handle errors here")
}
```

If we wanted to write try that using our current `checkPassword()` function, we could write this:

```swift
let string = "12345"

do {
    let result = try checkPassword(string)
    print("Password rating: \(result)")
} catch {
    print("There was an error.")
}
```

If the `checkPassword()` function works correctly, it will return a value into `result`, which is then printed out. But if any errors are thrown (which in this case there will be), the password rating message will never be printed – execution will immediately jump to the `catch` block.

There are a few different parts of that code that deserve discussion, but I want to focus on the most important one: `try`. This must be written before calling all functions that might throw errors, and is a visual signal to developers that regular code execution will be interrupted if an error happens.

When you use `try`, you need to be inside a `do` block, and make sure you have one or more `catch` blocks able to handle any errors. In some circumstances you can use an alternative written as `try!` which does not require `do` and `catch`, but will crash your code if an error is thrown – you should use this rarely, and only if you’re absolutely sure an error cannot be thrown.

When it comes to catching errors, you must always have a `catch` block that is able to handle every kind of error. However, you can also catch specific errors as well, if you want:

```swift
let string = "12345"

do {
    let result = try checkPassword(string)
    print("Password rating: \(result)")
} catch PasswordError.short {
    print("Please use a longer password.")
} catch PasswordError.obvious {
    print("I have the same combination on my luggage!")
} catch {
    print("There was an error.")
}
```

As you progress you’ll see how throwing functions are baked into many of Apple’s own frameworks, so even though you might not create them yourself much you will at least need to know how to _use_ them safely.

__Tip:__ Most errors thrown by Apple provide a meaningful message that you can present to your user if needed. Swift makes this available using an `error` value that’s automatically provided inside your `catch` block, and it’s common to read `error.localizedDescription` to see exactly what happened.

:::

::: info 2. How to handle errors in functions

- Optional: [When should you write throwing functions?][when-should-you-write-throwing-functions]
- Optional: [Why does Swift make us use try before every throwing function?][why-does-swift-make-us-use-try-before-every-throwing-function]
- Test: [Writing throwing functions][test-writing-throwing-functions]
- Test: [Running throwing functions][test-running-throwing-functions]

:::

### 3. Summary: Functions

::: details 3. Summary: Functions

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/beginners/summary-functions)

<YouTube id="hbFG6CVCe2Q" />

We’ve covered a lot about functions in the previous chapters, so let’s recap:

- Functions let us reuse code easily by carving off chunks of code and giving it a name.
- All functions start with the word `func`, followed by the function’s name. The function’s body is contained inside opening and closing braces.
- We can add parameters to make our functions more flexible – list them out one by one separated by commas: the name of the parameter, then a colon, then the type of the parameter.
- You can control how those parameter names are used externally, either by using a custom external parameter name or by using an underscore to disable the external name for that parameter.
- If you think there are certain parameter values you’ll use repeatedly, you can make them have a default value so your function takes less code to write and does the smart thing by default.
- Functions can return a value if you want, but if you want to return multiple pieces of data from a function you should use a _tuple_. These hold several named elements, but it’s _limited_ in a way a dictionary is not – you list each element specifically, along with its type.
- Functions can throw errors: you create an enum defining the errors you want to happen, throw those errors inside the function as needed, then use `do`, `try`, and `catch` to handle them at the call site.

:::


### 4. Checkpoint 4

::: details 4. Checkpoint 4

[📎link](https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/beginners/checkpoint-4)

<YouTube id="HOOUzY7VE6I" />

With functions under your belt, it’s time to try a little coding challenge. Don’t worry, it’s not that hard, but it might take you a while to think about and come up with something. As always I’ll be giving you some hints if you need them.

The challenge is this: write a function that accepts an integer from 1 through 10,000, and returns the integer square root of that number. That sounds easy, but there are some catches:

1. You can’t use Swift’s built-in `sqrt()` function or similar – you need to find the square root yourself.
2. If the number is less than 1 or greater than 10,000 you should throw an “out of bounds” error.
3. You should only consider integer square roots – don’t worry about the square root of 3 being 1.732, for example.
4. If you can’t find the square root, throw a “no root” error.

As a reminder, if you have number X, the square root of X will be another number that, when multiplied by itself, gives X. So, the square root of 9 is 3, because 3x3 is 9, and the square root of 25 is 5, because 5x5 is 25.

I’ll give you some hints in a moment, but as always I encourage you to try it yourself first – struggling to remember how things work, and often having to look them up again, is a powerful way to make progress.

Still here? Okay, here are some hints:

- This is a problem you should “brute force” – create a loop with multiplications inside, looking for the integer you were passed in.
- The square root of 10,000 – the largest number I want you to handle – is 100, so your loop should stop there.
- If you reach the end of your loop without finding a match, throw the “no root” error.
- You can define different out of bounds errors for “less than 1” and “greater than 10,000” if you want, but it’s not really necessary – just having one is fine.

:::

[when-to-use-default-parameters-for-functions]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-to-use-default-parameters-for-functions
[test-default-parameters]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/sixty/default-parameters

[when-should-you-write-throwing-functions]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/when-should-you-write-throwing-functions
[why-does-swift-make-us-use-try-before-every-throwing-function]: https://hackingwithswift.com/quick-start/understanding-swift/why-does-swift-make-us-use-try-before-every-throwing-function
[test-writing-throwing-functions]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/sixty/writing-throwing-functions
[test-running-throwing-functions]: https://hackingwithswift.com/review/sixty/running-throwing-functions

